It works for me.	""" to work for sy spoken - used to say that something is very suitable for you and does exactly what you wanted or expected: jó vkinek, megfelel vkinek """"Would tomorrow at 10:30am work for you?"""" """"Does that work for you?"""" That works for me."""
He used to go to our school.	used to do sg 1 if something used to happen, it happened regularly or all the time in the past, but does not happen now. If you used to do something, you did it regularly or for a period of time in the past. Use the infinitive without 'to' after used to, not the past tense. For talking about a present habit, use usually. régen rendszeresen csinált vmit, szokott (a múltban) We’re eating out more often than we used to. You didn’t use to eat chips when you were younger. It never used to bother me. Did you use to go to church regularly?
Jimmy used to be a friend of mine.	used to do sg 2 if a particular situation used to exist, it existed for a period of time in the past, but does not exist now. If you used to do something, you did it regularly or for a period of time in the past. Use the infinitive without 'to' after used to, not the past tense. For talking about a present habit, use usually. régen csinált vmit egy ideig There used to be a large car park on this site. Why are you so bad-tempered? You didn’t use to be like this. Did this building use to be a hotel? Where did you use to live before you came to Manchester?
At first Omar hated the rain in England, but he’s used to it now.	to be used to sg / doing sg if you are used to something, you have often done it or experienced it before, so it does not seem strange, new, or difficult to you: hozzá van szokva vmihez The car breaks down so often, I suppose I should be used to it by now. She grew up on a farm, so she’s used to getting up early. My grandfather was used to having everything done for him. Living so far north, they’re used to the very cold winters.
Once you get used to a routine, it’s hard to change.	to get used to sg / doing sg If you get used to something or you are getting used to something you are becoming accustomed to it – it was strange, now it’s not so strange. hozzászokik vmihez Paul had finally gotten used to Heidi’s mood swings. Mary never really got used to living on her own after her husband died. It took me a while to get used to the casual atmosphere in the office.
It's so simple that even a child can do it.	even 1 — used to stress something that is surprising or unlikely még ... is Not only did she stay in business, she even managed to make a profit. They've changed everything about the place, even the color! They've changed the doors, the carpets, the color, even!
His first book was good, but this one is even better.	even 2 — used to stress the difference between two things that are being compared még An even bigger change came the next year. This will make our job even more difficult. The news was even worse than we expected. The new version is even better than the old one.
Not only didn't they help, they didn't even offer to help!	even 3 — used after a negative word (such as not or a contraction of not) to stress the smallness of an amount or effort még csak nem is We thought he'd be interested in the painting, but he didn't even glance at it. She didn't even give him a second thought.
The disease can cause brain damage and even death.	even 4 — used to stress something that goes beyond what has just been mentioned in some way (such as by being stronger or more specific) akár ... is They were willing, even eager, to help. Some patients become depressed, even suicidal.
Some bilinguals also have two cultural identities, meaning that they are able to adapt their behaviour effortlessly.	meaning that which means that ami azt jelenti, hogy Penalties for dangerous drivers can act as a deterrent, meaning that people avoid repeating the same offence. Some people call this ‘cultural imperialism’, meaning that one culture has power over others.
Customers stood in line for 20 minutes at the cash register.	to stand in line (AmE) = to queue (BrE) American English - to wait in a line of people until it is your turn to do something SYN queue British English: sorban áll The four men were standing in a line on the other side of the table. Standing in line for hours at some government office was not exactly my idea of fun.
This is how you private message someone on Instagram.	to message sy to send a message sy üzen vkinek There are two ways to message someone.
On one level I quite like the attention but on another level, I suppose I find it a little disturbing	on one level … on another level something that you say when you are speaking about two opposite ways of thinking about or reacting to a situation: egy szinten... más szinten
The future’s looking good.	to look 3 SEEM [linking verb] to seem: tűnik He looks angry. Her new haircut makes her look young/younger. That cake looks delicious. “How does the situation look (to you) now?” “It looks pretty bad/good.” It looks dangerous/unlikely. a kind-looking woman = a woman who looks kind
It looks like it will be hard work.	it looks as if/as though/like it seems likely that úgy tűnik, mintha It looks like it will rain/snow. = It looks like rain/snow. It looks to me like they're all the same. = It looks like they're all the same to me. = They look like they're all the same to me. It looked as though he was feeling ill. = He looked as though he was feeling ill. It looks like she's going to win the tournament again this year. = She looks like she's going to win the tournament again this year. = (Brit) She looks like winning the tournament again this year. [=she seems likely to win the tournament again this year]
She’s really looking forward to meeting him.	to look forward to sg / doing sg to be excited and pleased about something that is going to happen: nagyon vár vmit I’m really looking forward to our vacation. My mother says she’s looking forward to meeting you. The kids are looking forward to their vacation - they’ve never been to California before.
Our plan was to have the guests park on the street, not the lawn.	plan 2: something that a person intends to do terv We would love to have dinner at your house Friday night, but we already have plans. [=we are already planning/expecting to do something else] They didn't want to change their vacation plans. We made plans to go out this Friday.
“Do you want to drive?” “I better not.”	better = had better In informal speech, better by itself is often used in this way without had. jobb lesz, ha I told him he better leave at once. “Should I go?” “You better!” “I'm sorry.” “You better be!” “Should I go?” “(You) Better not.”
Do you need me right now?	right now now, or immediately: most azonnal, most éppen We need to deal with this problem right now. I need a new car but right now I can’t afford one. She’s in Amsterdam right now but she should be in Paris by tomorrow night.
"Now: You asked me to disconnect that cable, but I can't connect to Outlook now."""	now vs right now Using right now emphasizes the time and implies that some condition is currently being experienced that prevents the connection but with the expectation that it will be corrected at some point in the future. Using just now may imply that some general condition has changed that is not temporal in nature or it might be used in the exact same way as right now albeit with perhaps a little less emphasis on this exact moment.
Please send out this letter right away.	""" right away without delay or hesitation : immediately azonnal"
As far as I know, Caroline’s never been married.	as far as I know spoken - say this when you think that something is true, although you realize that you may not know all the facts: amennyire tudom Alaska doesn’t have any drilling sites off the coast, as far as I know. As far as I know, they’re arriving on Saturday (=used when you think something is true but are not sure).
‘That’s Sarah’s cousin.’ ‘Are you sure?’	sure = certain [not before noun] confident that you know something or that something is true or correct. In writing, people often prefer to use certain rather than sure, because it sounds more formal. biztos ‘What time does the show start?’ ‘I’m not sure.’ Are you sure you want to go?
I’m sure there’s a logical explanation for all this.	sure (that) [not before noun] confident that you know something or that something is true or correct. In writing, people often prefer to use certain rather than sure, because it sounds more formal. biztos Are you sure that you know how to get there? My mother, I felt sure, had not met him before. I am sure (that) everything will be fine. We are quite/completely sure (that) we will be finished on time
Henry wasn’t sure how to answer this.	not sure how/where/when etc [not before noun] confident that you know something or that something is true or correct. In writing, people often prefer to use certain rather than sure, because it sounds more formal. nem biztos, hogy hogyan/hol/mikor She's not sure who will be there.
I’m not sure if I’m pronouncing this correctly.	not sure if/whether [not before noun] confident that you know something or that something is true or correct. In writing, people often prefer to use certain rather than sure, because it sounds more formal. biztos, hogy ... e
He wasn’t even sure of his mother’s name.	sure of [not before noun] confident that you know something or that something is true or correct. In writing, people often prefer to use certain rather than sure, because it sounds more formal. biztos vmiben They were talking about her, she was sure of that. She'll be there, I'm sure of it. Are you sure of the results?
‘That’s the man I saw in the building last night.’ ‘Are you quite sure (=completely sure) about that?’	to be sure about sg [not before noun] confident that you know something or that something is true or correct. In writing, people often prefer to use certain rather than sure, because it sounds more formal. biztos vmiben Are you sure about that?
His clothes did not fit him very well.	to fit sy if a piece of clothing fits you, it is the right size for your body. Use fit to say that clothes are not too big or too small. Use suit to say that clothes look attractive on someone. (ruha) jó vkire The uniform fitted her perfectly. The jacket’s fine, but the trousers don’t fit. I know this dress is going to fit you like a glove (=fit you very well).
I got it wrong. It wasn't the red one but the blue one.	but 3 used after a negative to emphasize that it is the second part of the sentence that is true: hanem He lied to the court not just once, but on several occasions. The purpose of the scheme is not to help the employers but to provide work for young people.
It was a difficult time, but eventually things turned out all right.	to turn out 1 to happen in a particular way, or to have a particular result, especially one that you did not expect vmilyen módon történik vagy vmilyen váratlan eredménye van To my surprise, it turned out that I was wrong. As it turned out (=used to say what happened in the end), he passed the exam quite easily. We were worried when only twenty people came to the party but it turned out very well. How did things turn out in the end?
That guy turned out to be Maria’s second cousin.	to turn out to be something 1 to happen in a particular way, or to have a particular result, especially one that you did not expect vmilyen módon történik vagy vmilyen váratlan eredménye van I was a bit doubtful at first, but it turned out to be a really good idea. The play turned out to be a success. The animal in the bushes turned out to be a cat. I hope I turn out to be right.
We wanted the baby to be born at home, but it didn’t quite turn out as planned.	not turn out as planned/expected 1 to happen in a particular way, or to have a particular result, especially one that you did not expect nem úgy történt, ahogy tervezve volt
As it turned out, James was delayed and didn’t arrive until three.	as it turned out used to say that this is what happened in the end As it/things turned out, I didn't need an umbrella after all.
"""Adolf """"Adi"""" Dassler began producing his own sports shoes in his mother's wash kitchen in Herzogenaurach, Bavaria, after his return from World War I"""	""" sports shoes  The """"correct"""" version (in AmE) would be sports shoes because we are talking about the category of sports. If the shoes are intended for one sport only, then you would say the name of the sport: """"baseball shoes"""". """
the unattractive aspects of nationalism	unattractive 2 not good or desirable: nem vonzó, nem jó an unattractive man/woman unattractive ideas
I knew the truth all along.	all along informal - all the time from the beginning while something was happening: végig The police knew all along who was guilty. Chapman had known all along that the plan wouldn’t work. We had to admit that Dad had been right all along.
Liz and I have known one another for years.	one another each other, each of two or more people, animals, etc., who are doing something together or in relationship to the other or others in the group egymás vs each other They often stay at one another’s houses. We shared our thoughts with one another. [=each other]
For the most part, people seemed pretty friendly.	for the most part used to say that something is generally true but not completely true: nagyrészt The inhabitants of the village are for the most part elderly. The cell chemistry of these insects is, for the most part, poorly understood. Ethnic minorities have struggled to retain their cultural identity, and have for the most part succeeded.
I’m really into folk music.	to be into sg spoken - to like and be interested in something nagyon kedvel és érdeklődik vmi iránt He's into surfing in a big way.
I can only do one thing at a time. [=at once]	at a time 1: during one particular moment egyszerre, egyidőben Please speak one at a time. [=so that only one person is speaking at any time] We carried the boxes two at a time up the stairs. [=we carried two boxes each time we went up the stairs] If you raise your hands, I’ll answer questions one at a time. Frank took the stairs two at a time.
She can sit and read for hours at a time. [=at a stretch]	at a time 2: during one period of time without stopping egyszerre, szünet nélkül
Ticket prices are through the roof.	to be through the roof chiefly US, informal - at an extremely high level nagyon magas szinten van
“Aren't you finished yet?” “Give me a break! I only started 10 minutes ago!”	Give me a break! 1 — used to tell someone to stop bothering you or treating you unfairly Hagyjál már!
“He says he went to Harvard.” “Give me a break! I doubt he even graduated from high school!”	Give me a break! 2 — used to say that you do not believe or are disgusted about what someone has said or done Hagyjál már! He wants more money? Give me a break! [=it's ridiculous/outrageous that he wants more money]
I expect to be back within a week.	to expect to do something to expect 1 THINK SOMETHING WILL HAPPEN to think that something will happen because it seems likely or has been planned vmire számít, vmit vár The company expects to complete work in April.
Emergency repairs were expected to take three weeks.	expect somebody/something to do something to expect 1 THINK SOMETHING WILL HAPPEN to think that something will happen because it seems likely or has been planned vmire számít, vmit vár I didn’t expect him to stay so long.
There’s the doorbell – I expect it’ll be my mother.	expect (that) to expect 1 THINK SOMETHING WILL HAPPEN to think that something will happen because it seems likely or has been planned vmire számít, vmit vár He will be hard to beat. I fully expect (=am completely sure about) that and I’m ready. ‘Who are you?’ he murmured, only half expecting (=thinking it was possible, but not likely) her to answer. He didn’t get his expected pay rise.
As expected, the whole family was shocked by the news.	as expected in the way that was planned or thought likely to happen mint ahogy várták vagy mint ahogy várható volt Tickets have not been selling as well as expected.
the unattractive aspects of nationalism	unattractive 2 not good or desirable: nem vonzó unattractive ideas
You do not need any prior knowledge of the subject.	prior 1 existing or arranged before something else or before the present situation előzetes Changes may not be made without the prior approval of the council. Vegetarian meals are provided by prior agreement. Some prior experience with the software is needed.
The society must give customers prior notice before changing the cost.	prior warning/notice a warning or announcement made before something happens: előzetes figyelmeztetés The bomb exploded without any prior warning.
All the arrangements should be completed prior to your departure.	prior to something somewhat formal - before valami előtt Prior to dinner, photographs of the wedding party will be taken. My parents were married just prior to the war.
Lisa had a job, but she'd always made her family the priority.	to make sg the priority the thing that you think is most important and that needs attention before anything else: elsődleges prioritásként kezeli
We paid for our tickets beforehand.	beforehand = ahead of time = in advance if you do something beforehand or ahead of time, you do it before you do something else, especially to make the situation easier: korábban, előre We had agreed beforehand not to tell anyone else about our plans. They'd agreed beforehand [=ahead of time] to leave early. Let me know ahead of time if you need a ride to the airport.
I can’t eat all of this – I’ll finish it later on.	later on at a time in the future or following an earlier time később We'll talk about this subject some more later on. They regretted their decision later on.
I’ll tell you about it later when I’m less busy.	later 1 after the time you are talking about or after the present time: később I’m going out for a bit – I’ll see you later.
Back then, most people left school at fourteen and started work.	back then = in those days at that time in the past - use this especially when you are comparing life in the past with life in the present: akkoriban We used to get paid ?2 a week. That was a lot of money in those days. In those days there was no proper road, just an old stony track through the woods. I remember thinking, back then, that I would never get married.
I’m still waiting for my results.	to wait 2 SOMETHING HAS NOT HAPPENED [intransitive] if you are waiting for something that you expect or hope will happen or arrive, it has not happened or arrived yet: vár ‘Have you heard about the job?’ ‘No, I’m still waiting.’ I’m waiting for him to realize how stupid he’s been.
a really good film	really 1 VERY very SYN extremely, Really is especially frequent in spoken English. In writing, people usually prefer to use very or extremely to emphasize an adjective, or very much to emphasize a verb. nagyon It was really cold last night. He walks really slowly. I’m really, really sorry.
Why don’t you tell us what really happened?	really 2 THE REAL SITUATION used when you are talking about what actually happened or is true, rather than what people might wrongly think: valójában, tényleg Oliver’s not really her brother. I never know what he’s really thinking. She seems unfriendly at first, but she’s really very nice. She didn't really mean it. Is that really a word?
We really need that extra money.	really spoken - 3 DEFINITELY used to emphasize something you are saying: tényleg, komolyan I really don’t mind. I’m absolutely fine, Dad – really. You should really see a doctor about your back pains. I really believe she's not coming back.
Do you really think she’s doing this for your benefit?	really spoken - 4 NOT TRUE used in questions when you are asking someone if something is true and suggesting that you think it is not true SYN honestly: tényleg, komolyan Do you really expect me to believe that?
‘He’s Canadian.’ ‘Really?’	really? used to show that you are surprised by what someone has said: tényleg, komolyan “They're getting divorced.” “Really?” [=I am surprised to hear that and would like to hear more]
‘We had a great time in Florida.’ ‘Really? How lovely.’	Really? used in conversation to show that you are listening to or interested in what the other person is saying: tényleg, komolyan
‘Glen can be such a jerk.’ ‘Yeah, really!’	really American English - used to show that you agree with someone: tényleg “He shouldn't be allowed to do that.” “Yeah, really. Who does he think he is?”
I don’t really know what he’s doing now.	not really used to say ‘no’ or ‘not’ in a less strong way: nem igazán ‘Do you want to come along?’ ‘Not really.’ “Was the movie good?” “Not really.” [=the movie wasn't very good] “Do you want to go to a movie?” “No, not really.” [=no, I am not very interested in going]
Really, you could have mentioned it sooner.	really used in speech to show that you are annoyed (most) komolyan Really, you're being ridiculous.
Some farmers rent their land from the council.	to rent 1 [intransitive and transitive] to regularly pay money to live in a house or room that belongs to someone else, or to use something that belongs to someone else: bérel, kibérel Most students rent rooms in their second year. I’d rather have my own house than rent. We rented our friends' cottage for the month of August. (US) We rented tables and chairs for the wedding. (US) We rented [=(Brit) hired] a car at the airport.
She rents out two rooms to students.	to rent = to rent out to let someone live in a house, room etc that you own, or use your land, in return for money bérbe ad She rents the flat out to students. They rented [=let] their cottage to friends. We rented them the upstairs apartment in our house. We rent (out) a room in our house to a college student
Do you think we'll get there in time?	in time 1: before something happens : early enough időben, mielőtt vmi történik, elég korán They arrived just in time to catch the last train out of town. I'll try to make it home in time for dinner. The CD will be released just in time for Christmas.
In time, she forgave him.	in time 2: when an amount of time has passed idővel, miután egy bizonyos idő eltelt Things will get better in time. [=eventually] He wants to see changes in the company and I am sure he will, in time.
Try to be there on time.	on time at or before the correct moment : at a time that is not late időben, amikor nem késő I paid all of my bills on time [=when they were due] this month. Please hand in your homework on time. We arrived right on time. [=exactly at the right time]
‘Thank you so much for looking after the children.’ ‘That’s all right. I enjoyed having them.’	that’s all right = that’s OK informal spoken, mainly spoken used when someone has thanked you or said sorry to you, to show that you do not mind nincs mit
‘Thanks a lot.’ ‘You’re welcome!’	you’re welcome especially American, spoken, used in reply to someone who has thanked you nincs mit “Thanks for the ride.” “You're welcome.”
‘Thank you for coming all the way out here.’ ‘No problem, lady.’	no problem US, informal, spoken - say this to show that what someone has thanked you for was really a very easy thing for you to do: nincs mit “Thanks for your help.” “No problem.” “I'm sorry for interrupting you.” “No problem.” “Can you get this done by lunchtime?” “No problem.”
Thanks for the ride.’ ‘Sure, no problem.’	sure American spoken - used as a reply to someone who has thanked you for something: nincs mit “Thank you for your help.” “Sure.” [=you're welcome]
‘How’s school going, Steve?’ ‘Oh, all right, I guess.’	all right = okay 1 GOOD satisfactory, but not excellent SYN okay: oké, rendben ‘What’s the food like?’ ‘It’s all right, but the place on campus is better.’ She does all right in school. The engine was sputtering when I started it, but it's running/working all right now. “How's your father?” “He was pretty sick, but he's doing all right now.”
Kate looks really unhappy – I’d better make sure she’s all right.	all right = okay 2 NO PROBLEMS not ill, hurt, or upset or not having any problems SYN okay: oké, rendben Are you feeling all right? The kids seem to be getting on all right at school. Tony was worried about the meeting but it went all right (=happened with no problems). Don’t worry, it’ll turn out all right.
She’s doing all right – she’s got a job with Microsoft.	to do all right (for yourself/herself etc) to be successful in your job, life etc: jól megy neki
Is Thursday morning all right with you?	all right with/by/for sy 4 SUITABLE used to say whether something is suitable or convenient SYN okay oké, rendben We’ll eat at eight. Does that sound all right to you? I'll meet you at 10 o'clock, all right? All right, I'll meet you at 10 o'clock. “I have to leave a little early today, all right?” “All right, that's fine.”
It’s all right, Mommy’s here.	it’s all right used to make someone feel less afraid or worried: minden rendben van It’s all right, honey, don’t cry. It’ll all be over soon, and everything’s going to be ok.
‘Thanks for all your help!’ ‘That’s quite all right.’	it’s/that’s all right used to reply to someone who thanks you or says they are sorry about something: minden rendben van
Would it be all right if I left early?	all right = okay 7 PERMISSION used to ask or give permission for something SYN okay: oké, rendben Is it all right to bring my dog? Whatever you decide to do is all right (with/by me). [=I will accept whatever you want to do] Is it all right to leave early? Is this movie all right for children?
‘Why not come along?’ ‘Oh, all right.’	all right = okay 8 AGREEMENT used to agree with someone’s suggestion, although you may be slightly unwilling SYN okay: na jó, oké, rendben
I’ll leave a key with the neighbours, all right?	all right = okay 9 UNDERSTANDING [sentence adverb] used to check that someone understands what you have said, or to show that you understand SYN okay: oké, rendben ‘The train leaves at 5.30.’ ‘All right, I’m coming!’
All right, you two. What are you doing in my room?	all right = okay 10 THREATEN used when asking in a threatening or angry way what someone’s intentions are SYN okay: jól van, oké, rendben “Can we please go now?” “Oh, all right, if you insist.” “Hurry up!” “All right, all right, I'm coming!” = “All right already, I'm coming!”
All right, now I’d like to introduce our first speaker.	all right = okay 11 CHANGE/END SUBJECT used to introduce a new subject or to end a conversation SYN okay: oké, rendben All right, let's suppose your theory is correct. What then? All right everyone, let's get started.
Are you OK?	OK = okay = all right 1 [not before noun] if you are OK, you are not ill, injured, or unhappy SYN all right: oké, rendben Do you feel OK now? Mum’s doing OK now. “Are you feeling OK? [=well]” “Yes, I'm fine.”
Is it OK if I leave my bags here?	OK = okay = all right 2 [not before noun] something that is OK is acceptable and will not cause any problems SYN all right. People usually avoid OK or okay in writing, and use more formal words such as acceptable or satisfactory. oké, rendben Will half past eight be OK? Does my hair look OK? ‘Sorry I’m late.’ ‘That’s OK.’ Yeah, the TV's working OK.
It’s okay for you to go home now.	it is okay (for somebody) to do something OK = okay = all right 2 [not before noun] something that is OK is acceptable and will not cause any problems SYN all right. People usually avoid OK or okay in writing, and use more formal words such as acceptable or satisfactory. oké, rendben It may be OK to do that sort of thing at home, but it isn't OK here.
I’ll pay you the rest tomorrow, if that’s OK with you.	it is okay with/by somebody OK = okay = all right 2 [not before noun] something that is OK is acceptable and will not cause any problems SYN all right. People usually avoid OK or okay in writing, and use more formal words such as acceptable or satisfactory. oké, rendben Is she OK with the schedule change? It's okay by me if you want to stay longer.
I think I did okay in the exam.	OK = okay 3 [not before noun] satisfactory but not extremely good: megfelelő ‘How was the film?’ ‘It was okay, but not brilliant.’ She's an OK [=fair] player. He's okay [=he is not bad] at math, but he really likes history.
He’s an OK guy.	OK = okay 4 someone who is OK is nice, pleasant etc: rendes I’ve met Jim once, and he seems OK.
Don't worry. Everything will be OK. [=all right]	OK = okay not marked by problems, danger, etc. oké, rendben “I'm so sorry that I'm late.” “It's/That's OK. We still have plenty of time.” “Are you OK for money?” “Yes, I have enough.”
We had to stop several times so that the slower hikers wouldn't fall (too far) behind.	to fall behind 1: to fail to move or go forward as quickly as others lemarad, nem tud lépést tartani His mother was chatting and didn’t notice that he had fallen behind. She hurt her ankle and had fallen behind the others.
We've been falling further behind with our work.	to fall behind on/with sg 2: to fail to do something as quickly as planned or required — often + with lemarad, elmarad vmivel I am falling behind on my homework. We fell behind on our car payments. After losing his job, he fell behind with his mortgage payments. The project has fallen behind schedule.
Companies that are not market-driven risk falling behind the competition.	to fall behind sg 3 to become less successful than other people, companies, countries etc: lemarad, nem tud lépést tartani vmivel After her time in hospital, Jenny’s parents are afraid she has fallen behind educationally.
The campus is beautiful in the snow but it gets old pretty fast. Most students tend to stay indoors for the long winter unless they are out at a mountain.	"it gets old It means you get tired of it pretty fast. It seems ""old"" after a few days, because the time drags and seems to last longer and longer. And you wonder how much longer it can last, and still there's more, and more, and more. unalmassá válik Have you ever been to a party or gathering and been seated next to someone who just spends the whole night talking about themselves? It gets old pretty fast."
The investigators did a lot of research to dig up the facts.	to dig sg up 3 to find hidden or forgotten information by careful searching: előás They tried to dig up something from his past to spoil his chances of being elected.
I double-checked all my calculations and they seemed fine.	to double-check to check something again so that you are completely sure it is correct, safe etc újra megnéz Travellers should double-check flight information before setting off today. Be sure to double-check your answers before handing in your test. I thought I mailed the letter already, but let me double-check.
the court’s discretionary powers	discretionary not controlled by strict rules, but decided on by someone in a position of authority: megítélés szerinti, tetszés szerinti, önkényes discretionary award/grant/fund etc
She has enough discretionary income [=income that is left after paying for things that are essential, such as food and housing] to pay for a nice vacation each year.	discretionary income the money remaining from your income after your bills have been paid, which can be spent on entertainment, holidays etc diszkrecionális, szabadon elkölthető jövedelem
"Let's use different verbs: ""Let the task be started on time."" implies it to be started at a certain time and no earlier. ""Let the task be started in time."" implies the task should be started by the specified time and no later."	in time vs on time in time = early enough, not late, vs. on time = punctually, according to the schedule in time = időben, elég korán, nem későn, on time = időben, pontosan, a schedule szerint They are often interchangeable when the implied meaning is “not too late”. Either variant is possible in The road is closed; I won’t be able to get to work in time / on time. When you say that you “cannot get there in time”, the implied meaning is that you are going to be late, and when you “cannot be there on time”, the implied meaning is that you are going to miss the scheduled start of your working day, which is essentially the same thing.
I got an email from Sue the other day (=a few days ago).	the other day = a few days ago, spoken, use this to say that something happened or you did something recently: a minap, pár nappal ezelőtt Mark called the other day. I met Lucy the other day outside Budgens. Well, did my dad tell you what happened to me in the car the other day?
We’ve got most of the heavy work done, so I think we can leave it at that for today.	to leave it at that informal - to stop doing something because you are satisfied that you have done enough: abbahagyja, amit csinál, mert elégedett, hogy vmit eleget csinált Let’s leave it at that for today. You’ve said you’re sorry, so let’s leave it at that. Let's not spend too long on this. Let's just put on a few finishing touches and leave it at that. I can't say much about what happened in the meeting, but I'll just tell you that Frank won't be coming in tomorrow and leave it at that.
She leaves it to the reader to draw their own conclusions.	to leave sg to sy [verb phrase] to make someone responsible for doing something, especially something that has already been started: ráhagy vmit vkire Leave it to me. I’ll make sure it gets posted. The choice of specialist subject is left entirely to the students. Leave it to me. I’ll find you a place to stay. Can I leave it to you to sort out the details of the conference? The proposal leaves it to local communities to enforce the law.
The financial considerations are laid out in a booklet called ‘How to Borrow Money’.	to lay out to describe or explain something clearly leír, elmagyaráz, kifejt érthetően He laid out the reasons for his decision. All the terms and conditions are laid out in the contract.
She plans to pursue a career in politics.	to pursue 2: to try to get or do (something) over a period of time próbál vmit megkapni vagy csinálni egy időn keresztül Students should pursue their own interests, as well as do their school work. companies that pursue the traditional goal of profits a campaign promise to pursue policies that will help the poor
Buyers have been holding off until the price falls.	to hold off on sg/doing sg to delay doing something, to wait to do something vár, kivár vmivel, elhalaszt vmit You need to decide now. You can't hold off any longer. He held off as long as he could. She decided to hold off on her vacation for a while longer. He held off on announcing his decision. Let us please hold off on publishing till we finish this validation.
the criteria for measuring how good schools are	criterion (pl. criteria) a standard that you use to judge something or make a decision about something: kritérium Academic ability is not the sole criterion for admission to the college. a universal set of criteria for diagnosing patients To qualify for a grant, students must satisfy certain criteria.
We went on to the next item on the agenda.	item 1 [countable] a single thing, especially one thing in a list, group, or set of things: pont He opened the cardboard box and took out each item. The store is having a sale on furniture and household items. item on the agenda/list/menu
He always had a cheerful/nervous disposition. [=temperament, personality]	disposition = temperament 1[count] : the usual attitude or mood of a person or animal természet, kedv It's nice to work with someone who has such a sunny disposition. [=who is usually cheerful] a dog with an excellent disposition
The motor is loud by design. [=because it was intended to be loud]	by design intentionally szándékosan The meeting happened by accident, not by design. [=on purpose]
Fleming discovered penicillin almost by accident.	by accident = accidentally if you do something by accident, you do it by chance and without intending to do it: véletlenül We ended up by accident on the wrong train and had to ride all the way to Montreal. The trigger of the gun is locked so that it cannot be fired by accident.
They decided on a pay increase of 10% across the board.	across the board if something, especially a change, happens across the board, it affects or involves everyone, especially in a company or organization: mindenhol, mindenki, mindenkit, mindenkire, mindenkinek Jobs will be lost across the board, in manufacturing, marketing, and administration. The changes will affect local authorities across the board. We find jobs for people right across the board, from chief executives to cleaners. The same criteria will be applied across the board.
I associate flowers with spring.	to associate sg with sg 1 [+ object] : to think of one person or thing when you think of another person or thing — usually + with asszociál vmit vmivel, gondol vmi miatt vmire She will always associate that place with her youth. People associate the company with televisions but it also makes computers.
There are several dangers/risks associated with [=connected with] that approach.	to be associated with sg When one thing is associated with another, they happen together or are related or connected in some way. kapcsolatban áll vhogyan vmivel, ami kapcsolódik vmihez plants associated with the desert He has symptoms associated with lung disease. There are health problems that are often associated with poverty.
The Web site provides information about local activities.	to provide sg to/for sy 1 [+ object] a : to make (something) available : to supply (something that is wanted or needed) nyújt vmit vkinek The curtains on the windows provide privacy. The school provided new uniforms for the band. The goal is to provide health care to/for as many people as possible. The store provides excellent service (to its customers). Coffee and doughnuts will be provided at the meeting.
The Web site provides users with information about local activities.	to provide sg with sg 1b : to give something wanted or needed to (someone or something) : to supply (someone or something) with something. Do not say ‘provide someone something’. Say provide someone with something. odaad vmit vkinek, amire szüksége van, ellát vkit vmivel The school provided the band with new uniforms. The store provides its customers with excellent service. Workers were provided with gloves for protection. The project is designed to provide young people with work.
Several military bases are scheduled to be decommissioned.	to decommission to officially stop using (a ship, weapon, dam, etc.) : to remove (something) from service hivatalosan nem használja tovább The government is decommissioning the nuclear power plant.
She refused to sign off until the wording was changed.	to sign off (on) sg to approve something officially by signing your name jóváhagy vmit hivatalosan az alááírásával (átvitt értelemben is használják) He signed off on the memo [=he approved the memo by signing it] and gave it back to his secretary for distribution.
Can I take this as your signoff to publish the insight tomorrow?	signoff The act or process of signing off (approving with a signature). jóváhagyás
The new president outlined plans to deal with crime, drugs, and education.	to outline 1 to describe something in a general way, giving the main points but not the details (fel)vázol, körvonalaz The President outlined his agenda for the next term. The book outlines the major events of the country's history. All players must follow the rules outlined above.
Tickets cost $20 or so.	… or so about, used to say that a number, amount, etc., is not exact kb. We plan to stay a week or so. [=we plan to stay about a week] We have to leave in five minutes or so. I stopped reading after thirty or so pages.
We need to hustle if we’re going to make this flight.	to hustle 2a [no object] chiefly US: to move or work in a quick and energetic way igyekezni If we want to catch that bus, we're going to have to hustle. [=rush] Cindy’s not a great player, but she really hustles.
I'll have to check with the manager before I can let you in.	to check with sy to talk with someone in order to get approval, information, etc., about something beszél vkivel azért, hogy jóváhagyást, infót kapjon Check with your doctor to find out which drugs are safe. I'm not sure when you should arrive. I'll have to check that with my wife.
The old numbers don't tally with the new numbers.	to tally with sg 2[no object] : to agree or match egyezik vmivel The numbers on the old list and the new list don't tally. Some of the records held by the accounts departments did not tally. The number of ballot papers did not tally with the number of voters.
The movie didn't match our expectations. [=the movie was not as good as we expected it to be]	to match sg 4a : to be the equal of (something or someone) : to be as good as (something or someone) egyenlő, olyan jó, mint Nothing will ever match the sheer excitement of that game. = Nothing will ever match that game in/for sheer excitement. Nobody can match him at golf. [=no one is as good as he is at playing golf] The car has a record of reliability that's hard to match. His talents are matched only by his ego. The company's growth has been matched by the increase in its political influence.
the remediation of reading problems	remediation the process of improving or correcting a situation, the process of improving something or correcting something that is wrong, especially changing or stopping damage to the environment megjavítás, helyreállítás, kármentesítés environmental remediation remediation of contaminated soil
I think we're pretty much decided, unless you want to weigh in.	to weigh in with/on sg 2 informal - to join in an argument or fight, to give your opinion about something elmondja a véleményét vmiről, előhozakodik vmivel The chairman then weighed in with his views. Would you like to weigh in with your opinion? [=would you like to say what your opinion is?] Do you want to weigh in on our weekend plans? [=do you want to say your opinion about our weekend plans?]
George VI reigned from 1936 to 1952.	to reign over sg 1 to rule a nation or group of nations as their king, queen, or EMPEROR: uralkodik vmi felett Pharaohs reigned over Egypt for centuries. The king reigned in a time of peace and prosperity. She reigned over her kingdom for many decades.
She did not realize that her policy had expired.	policy = insurance policy a contract with an insurance company, or an official written statement giving all the details of such a contract biztosítási kötvény If the watch is stolen, your insurance policy might reimburse only $5,000. Your account number is printed on the top of your policy document.
We spent hours trying to decipher [=figure out] the lyrics to the song.	to decipher sg to find the meaning of something that is difficult to read or understand megfejt, kisilabizál vmit decipher [=decode] a secret message The ancient scrolls were recently deciphered. [=translated] I couldn't decipher his sloppy handwriting.
Although on the outside he was quiet and shy, Albert had more than his share of quirks.	quirk strange or unusual habit or part of someone’s character szeszély, sajátosság She took pride in her children’s quirks and individuality, and made no effort to try to change them. Everyone has their little quirks.
The team are all set for another comfortable victory.	to be all set to be ready to start doing something that you have planned to do and want to do: készen áll, hogy vmit csináljon, amit eltervezett vagy akar csinálni Dad got on his bike. ‘Are you all set?’ he called. We were all set to start the barbecue when it started to rain. We're all set. She's all set for an early-morning start.
Her very timely book examines the effects of global warming on the world's climates.	timely happening at the correct or most useful time : not happening too late időszerű, alkalmas időben történő a timely decision/warning She always responds to my requests in a timely fashion/manner.
Vitamins are crucial for maintaining good health.	crucial = vital extremely important kulcsfontosságú Eggs are a crucial [=essential] ingredient in this recipe. a crucial distinction/difference It's crucial that we arrive before 8 o'clock. Teachers are crucial to the success of the school. She played a crucial role in the meeting. Tonight's game is the crucial [=decisive] game of the series. [=whoever wins this game will win the series]
These matters are vital to national defense.	vital = crucial extremely important létfontosságú, életbevágó He played a vital [=key] role in guiding the project. The sciences are a vital part of the school curriculum. It is vital that you follow all safety procedures. = It is of vital importance that you follow all safety procedures.
Jazz just isn’t my cup of tea – I prefer classical music.	to be not your cup of tea If something is not your cup of tea, you do not like it very much or you are not very good at it. nem az én csésze teám I'm afraid that skiing just isn't my cup of tea. She admits that stamp collecting isn't everyone's cup of tea.
The executive board huddled to discuss the issue.	to huddle American English - to come together to talk about something privately összejön és megbeszél valamit nem nyilvánosan Union representatives are huddling to discuss the proposal.
Of (all) my friends, you are the only one I really trust.	of 2 — used to indicate that someone or something belongs to a group of people or things valamiből He has written two novels, of which the first is the best. = He has written two novels, the first of which is the best. Of the ones in green from my last email, please start with this one.
oil/petroleum/sugar refinery	refinery a place where the unwanted substances in something (such as oil or sugar) are removed : a place where something is refined finomító oil/sugar refineries
The inventor of the machine spent years refining the design.	to refine 1 to improve a method, plan, system etc by gradually making slight changes to it finomít, csiszol The class is meant to help you refine your writing style. Car makers are constantly refining their designs.
We just need to get you a pair of skis and you’re good to go.	to be good to go American spoken - to have completed all the necessary preparations and be ready to start doing something: az összes előkészületet elvégezte és készen van, hogy elkezdjen vmit ‘Do you have all the hiking gear?’ ‘Yeah, I’m good to go.’ We have all the tools and supplies we need, so we're good to go.
"A man and a woman have had a small disagreement. The man becomes nervous that their relationship might end and asks ""Are we good?"""	"Are we good (with that)? As for ""Are we good?"", this can have a few different meanings. Example 1. A man and a woman have had a small disagreement. The man becomes nervous that their relationship might end and asks ""Are we good?"" He could be asking ""Is our relationship ok?"", or it could mean ""Are you still mad at me?"" Example 2. Some friends are being chased by a monster through the woods. They finally escape the woods, and some asks ""Are we good?"" He is asking, ""Is it safe?"" or ""Are we safe?"" Example 3. A family has packed their stuff in the car and everyone is eager to leave and begin their trip. The dad, at the wheel, asks ""Are we good?"" In other words, he is asking ""Is everyone ready?"", ""Is everyone ready to go?"". minden ok (ezzel kapcsolatban)?"
The worksheets are designed to be used in conjunction with the new coursebooks.	in conjunction with sg working, happening, or being used with someone or something else együtt vmivel Learners will benefit from using the book in conjunction with the video. The file viewing functions can be used in conjunction with file manager. The exhibition is sponsored by the Arts Council in conjunction with British Airways. Stenmann is working in conjunction with leading scientists and has invested $5 million in the scheme.
What is the ask?	"ask (as a noun) = request Raymond Chen - This has taken over Microsoft-speak in the past year or so and it drives me batty. ""What are our key asks here?"", you might hear in a meeting. Language tip: The thing you are asking for is called a ""request"". Plus, of course, the thing that is an ""ask"" is usually more of a ""demand"" or ""requirement"". But those are such unfriendly words, aren't they? Why not use a warm, fuzzy word like ""ask"" to take the edge off? Answer: Because it's not a word. These ""asks"" are really ""demands"". So don't guilt-trip me with ""Oh, you didn't meet our ask. We had to cut half our features. But that's okay. We'll just suffer quietly, you go do your thing, don't mind us."" Martha - I don't care how old the usage is, 'ask' as a noun is just... wrong. Jeff Allen - While language evolution might explain how it could come into use, the real problem is the context where it has recently come back: The minefield of passive aggressiveness that is negotiations between middle managers in giant companies, fighting over who will deliver what (all the while considering how ""the ask"" will impact their CYA strategy). Yuck. kérés, de sokak szerint helytelen"
The back-and-forth between Democrats and Republicans continues.	back-and-forth a situation in which people give each other ideas, opinions, or information, negotiations or discussions between two or more parties, a dialog. ötletelés There's some back and forth between Simpson and his CIA counterparts and, in essence, the CIA says that you must ship all of the quantities requested.
The patient was having intermittent pains in his side.	intermittent = sporadic starting, stopping, and starting again : not constant or steady időszakos, váltakozó, szórványos, helyenkénti The forecast is for intermittent rain. There are reports of intermittent [=sporadic] fighting along the border. The weather forecast is for sun, with intermittent showers.
Sporadic cases of the disease were reported.	sporadic = intermittent happening often but not regularly : not constant or steady időszakos, váltakozó, szórványos, helyenkénti sporadic [=intermittent] gunfire/fighting There has been sporadic violence downtown. Our advertising campaigns have been too sporadic to have had a lot of success. There was rioting and sporadic fighting in the city as rival gangs clashed.
I'm available all next week.	next week the week after this one következő hét, következő héten I'm available every day next week. I'll probably go the mountains next week. I'll be on holiday for the next week. I'm sure there will be a lot of work to do in the next week.
You can team up with one other class member if you want.	to team up with sy to join with someone in order to work on something csatlakozik vkihez, azért, hogy dolgozzon vmin Several organizations have teamed up with one another in the relief effort. The movie is about a young policeman who is teamed up with an experienced detective.
Let me know if you have any problems at your end.	at sy's end 7 [count] : a specific part of a project, activity, etc., especially : the part of a project, activity, etc., that you are responsible for vki részén Are there any problems at your end? Apologies for the confusion at my end.
On the employees' part, the company's merger means that many will be losing their jobs.	on sy's part 1 As far as is related to, regards, or concerns someone; to the degree that someone is involved or a part (of something). ami vkit illet, részéről Jane on her part has been instrumental in getting this project off the ground.
It took a lot of hard work on everyone's part [=done by everyone] to finish the project on time.	on sy's part 2. As comes from or is done by someone, by or from someone vki részéről, vki által vagy vkitől Guarantees on the banks' part must be provided to assure the country's citizens that their money is safe during this period of recovery. There has been no shortage of effort on his part to make sure this campaign has been successful. It was a good effort on the part of all the students. [=all the students made a good effort] There is a lot of sympathy for the accused woman on the part of the public. [=the public feels a lot of sympathy for her]
I pulled her up on social media and learned that she was an investment banker.	"to pull sg up = to pull up sg To procure and open a source of information about someone or something. In this usage, a noun or pronoun can be used between ""pull"" and ""up."" megnyit, megkeres, előkeres I'm pulling up an article on 18th-century wig making for a paper I'm writing. Give me a moment to pull up your file on the computer."
The big jars are good for storing pasta.	to be good for sg / doing sg especially spoken - to be suitable and useful for a particular job or purpose: jó vmire The table does take up a lot of space, but it’s good for parties.
A week after the story broke, the newspaper printed a follow-up.	follow-up (noun) something that continues or completes a process or activity, something that is done to make sure that earlier actions have been successful or effective valami, ami folytatja vagy teljessé teszi a folyamatot vagy tevékenységet As a follow-up to last week's show, tonight we'll show the other side of the story. preventative treatment and follow-up several weeks later
After you submit your job application, you should make a follow-up phone call.	follow–up (adjective) something that is done after something else in order to check it or make sure that it is successful valami, ami folytatja vagy teljessé teszi a folyamatot vagy tevékenységet He had a follow-up appointment a week after his surgery. a follow-up study on children and poverty Once you have installed solar heating you will receive regular follow-up visits from our experts. After each training programme everyone has a follow-up interview with their manager.
I got your e-mail but I’m afraid I forgot to follow it up.	to follow up (on) sg to take further action in order to deal with a complaint, request, letter etc: további tevékenységet végez azért, hogy egy panasszal, kéréssel, levéllel kapcsolatban foglalkozzon Our rule is that the complaints department must follow up a letter within two days. Following up on recommendations made last year, the president called for the more efficient use of resources.
I'll finish the report before the meeting. Vs I'll finish the report beforehand = in advance.	"before vs beforehand = in advance I'm actually having a difficult time explaining beforehand simply because it isn't often used in everyday language. I think the best way to understand it is something like: beforehand is a way to avoid using a prepositional phrase. For example, you could state: They both have the same meaning and I don't detect any significant difference in nuance. However, the second would only be stated if it is clear that you are talking about a meeting (because it was discussed earlier). Also, I'm not confident if this sensation is shared, but I believe that beforehand sounds slightly lazy (and consequently a little less formal). It sounds like you are sacrificing explicitness and clarity for ease. In advance is a bit easier to understand. In advance always implies that you are doing something earlier than absolutely necessary. előtte vs előre In my experience (native American English speaker), the word beforehand is not really used as it is typically defined. I was actually surprised when I looked here and saw ""in advance"" and ""in anticipation"" included in the definition. I don't feel those nuances when I hear ""beforehand""."
"PFA = ""Please Find Attached"" or ""Please Find the Attachment"""	"PFA = ""Please Find Attached"" or ""Please Find the Attachment"" ""Please Find Attached"" or ""Please Find the Attachment"" csatoltam"
Since having the kids, my career has been put on hold.	on hold in the state of being delayed for a time, if something is on hold, it is going to be done or dealt with at a later date rather than now később lesz megcsinálva vagy foglalkozva vele The plans are on hold until after the election. Our vacation plans are on hold. = Our vacation plans have been put on hold.
collect vs gather	"collect vs gather Collect X basically implies you will keep or contain X after obtaining X. Gather X may not necessarily have this implication, you usually have to express it or suggest it via context. Because we usually don't force people against their will or put them in containers, gather is often used with people, unless we are transporting them. If the X's you are wanting to aggregate exist over a wide area, gather helps to suggest that. Using collect in this situation implies there is only a few or exact known number of X. Collect X can also mean ""to keep X as part of a collection"" or ""to receive something as payment, especially to repay a debt."" gyűjt We are gathered here today to talk about the monorail. I've collected a few people and they are ready [sounds like the people aren't real people, but a manager may say this in treating people as resources] This device gathers rainwater [implying rainwater flows through it] This device collects rainwater [when it's done raining, the water stays] We walked around the plains and gathered berries. We walked around the plains and collected berries [these must have been some special berries.]"
The team needs a big turnaround after their loss last week.	turnaround a complete change from a bad situation to a good situation, from one way of thinking to an opposite way of thinking, etc. teljes változás rossz helyzetből jó helyzetbe The company has achieved a remarkable turnaround in the past year. The latest news has caused a turnaround in public opinion.
The essays are edited for clarity.	clarity the quality of being clear: such as a) : the quality of being easily understood érthetőség There is a lack of clarity in many legal documents. Letters may be edited for length and clarity. a lack of clarity in the law on property rights
Women constitute 70 percent of the student population at the college.	to constitute = to make up not used in progressive tenses, [linking verb] : to make up or form something. In everyday English, people usually say make up rather than constitute: His letters to his wife make up the middle section of the book. kitesz, áll vmiből, képez, alkot Twelve months constitute a year. [=a year is made up of 12 months] We must redefine what constitutes a family. Gabor/Kornel, do you need more clarity on what constitutes “medium and long term HY (High Yield) positions” vs what constitutes “Short term Fixed Income positions”?
She called to reschedule her appointment.	to reschedule to schedule (something) for a different time or date átszervez, átütemez egy másik időpontra The meeting was rescheduled for Tuesday. The press conference had to be rescheduled for March 19.
a definitive biography	definitive complete, accurate, and considered to be the best of its kind teljes a definitive collection of the band's albums definitive study/work/guide etc the definitive study of Victorian railway stations
As a rule of thumb, stocks that involve greater risk also have the potential of earning you more money.	rule of thumb 1: a method of doing something that is based on experience and common sense rather than exact calculation 2: a principle that is believed and followed and that is based on the way something usually happens or is done hüvelykujjszabály, ökölszabály As a general rule of thumb, children this age should not spend more than one hour on homework. A good rule of thumb for keeping your closet organized is to get rid of any clothes you haven't worn in the past year.
The boss is in a huddle with the marketing director	huddle a private discussion or meeting privát megbeszélés vagy találkozó
What's the exact wording of the agreement?	wording = phrasing the way in which something is said or written : the words that are used to say something fogalmazás, megfogalmazás the exact wording of the contract The wording was deliberately ambiguous. It was the standard form of wording for a consent letter. What was the exact wording of the message?
The great merit [=advantage, strength] of this plan is its simplicity.	merit 1 [count] : a good quality or feature that deserves to be praised előny, érdem, jó tulajdonság, ami megérdemli, hogy dicsérjük The plan has many merits. It's difficult to judge the merits of her proposal. We were talking about the relative merits of running and walking as kinds of exercise.
His ideas have (some) merit.	merit 2 [noncount] formal : the quality of being good, important, or useful : value or worth. Merit is used especially in formal contexts. In everyday English, people usually talk about the good points of something: The book does have its good points. érték, az a tulajdonság, hogy valami jó, fontos vagy hasznos She saw merit in both of the arguments. Their idea is without merit. = Their idea has no merit. The study has no scientific merit.
Hiring decisions are based entirely on merit. [=people are hired because they have the skills to do the job well]	on merit based on merit érdeme alapján Students are selected solely on merit (=because they are good).
The arguments should be judged on their merits.	to judge something on its merits to judge according to what you see when you look at it, rather than what people tell you érdemei alapján ítél meg It’s important to judge each case on its merits.
Stones are inanimate.	inanimate not living : not capable of life nem élő, élettelen an inanimate object How can you get angry with a car? It’s an inanimate object! Some languages categorise not only living things as masculine or feminine, but inanimate objects as well.
Whose fires need replenishing? vs. Which fires’ fuel needs replenishing?	"whose I just realized that whose is used in several different grammatical ways. In some of these ways, I would never use whose for anything but a person or animal. In particular, one of whose's uses is as an interrogative pronoun, as in: Whose shoes are these? Whose are these shoes? If you had some leaves, and were asking which tree they fell off of, you cannot say: *Whose leaves are these? *Whose are these leaves? You have to say something like: Which tree's leaves are these? But when it is a relative pronoun that immediately follows its antecedant, whose can be used for inanimate objects: The tree whose leaves look like hands .... This may be part of the cause of the confusion about whether whose can only be used for people or animals. akié, amié, kié, mié ""Whose"" is also used to refer to a component of something inanimate and your original is perfectly grammatical. I wonder if you're inventing a problem where there isn't one. If you think using ""whose"" sounds a bit too formal, you could say e.g. ""A camera with wires going through the wall"", which would maybe be what people would say in everyday spontaneous speech. It's not clear to me that ""a camera of which the wires..."" is more common or natural than ""a camera whose wires..."". As far as grammatical category is concerned, it really depends on your model and, depending on your model, exactly what type of analysis you're doing. As a fairly broad label, it's probably fair to group it with other ""wh-words"" (""when"", ""which"" etc.)."
The tax only affects people on incomes of over $200,000 – in other words, the very rich.	in other words used when you are expressing an idea or opinion again in a different and usually simpler way: másszóval So he is a fraud, a common thief in other words. “She said the movie was a bit predictable.” “In other words, she didn't like it.” So, in other words, you're saying that you forgot to do it.
Their company led the way in developing this technology. [=was the first to have success developing the technology]	to lead the way = to show the way to be the first to do something, especially something good or successful, which may encourage others to do something similar mutatja az utat, az élen halad Once the Japanese had shown the way, manufacturers in other countries soon began to use robots on a large scale. The company has led the way in developing environmentally friendly products.
Did you have anyone in mind for the job?	to have sy/sg in mind 1a : to be thinking of choosing (someone) for a job, position, etc. gondolkodik azon, hogy vkit/vmit válasszon vmire They have you in mind for the job. [=they are thinking of giving the job to you] Have you any particular colour in mind for the bedroom?
“I'd like to do something special for our anniversary.” “What sort of thing did you have in mind?”	to have sy/sg in mind 1b : to be thinking of doing (something) gondolkodik azon, hogy csináljon vmit It was a nice house, but it wasn’t quite what we had in mind.
He had it in mind [=intended] to leave the business to his daughter.	to have it in mind to do sg / that formal - to intend to do something szándékozik vmit csinálni For a long time I had it in mind to write a book about my experiences. I had it in mind that one day I might move to Spain.
I'm afraid there's nothing you can do to speed things up.	to speed up / to speed up sg / to speed sg up to become faster or to make (something or someone) faster felgyorsul, felgyorsít I hate it when cars speed up [=accelerate] while you're trying to pass them. The work has been slow so far but it should speed up soon. They add another chemical to the photo developer to speed up the process. They're working too slowly. How can we speed them up?
"You can say ""Let's have a call tomorrow"" or ""Let's call each other tomorrow"" or ""Let's talk tomorrow""."	"to have a call Note that ""have a call"" has a slight sense of this being a business call. If you want to be less formal, you might use ""let's talk tomorrow"" instead. beszél"
I like the way the company conducts business.	to conduct 1 CARRY OUT [transitive] to carry out a particular activity or process, especially in order to get information or prove facts. In everyday English, people usually say do or carry out rather than conduct. végez The police are conducting an investigation into last week's robbery. scientists conducting research/experiments The magazine conducted a survey. Who will be conducting the meeting? The committee is expected to conduct hearings in May.
The seeds remain dormant until the spring.	dormant not doing anything at this time : not active but able to become active alvó, szunnyadó a huge dormant volcano lie/remain dormant The seeds will remain/lie dormant until the spring. Her emotions have lain dormant for many years.
She was walking home near Colbayns School when a man approached her and asked her the time.	to ask sy the time / to ask sy what time it is to ask someone to tell you the time: megkérdez vkit, hogy mennyit az idő She was distracted for a moment by someone asking the time. Go and ask Dad what time it is. If you’ve got a watch, why are you asking what time it is?
What time is it? (AmE) = What's the time (BrE)	What time is it? (AmE) = What's the time (BrE) spoken - say this to ask someone you are with to tell you the time: hány óra van?
Drivers obey speed laws only when they think the police are near.	to obey sg to do what a law or rule says you must do: betart vmit All citizens must obey the law and be loyal to the Constitution. She was one of those people who obeyed the rules and was never irresponsible.
Companies must comply with European employment laws.	to comply with sg formal - if you comply with a law or a decision, you do what it says you must do: megfelel vminek Failure to comply with these conditions could result in prosecution.
Those are the rules and regulations -- we don’t make them but we have to abide by them.	to abide by sg to accept and obey a decision, rule, agreement etc, even though you may not agree with it: elfogad és betart vmit, bár nem ért vele egyet Players have to abide by the referee’s decision. Generally, journalists abide by an agreed code of practice.
If you keep to the rules nothing can go wrong.	to keep to sg to always obey the law or rules closely and not ignore them: tartja magát vmihez Keep to the law, but apart from that, do whatever you have to do to find this man. Do you always keep to the speed limit when you’re driving?
Failure to stick to the safety rules could result in disaster.	to stick to the rules informal - to do something exactly as it should be done, especially so that there is no chance of anything going wrong: betartja a szabályokat Everyone in the party has a responsibility to stick to the rules agreed by the party conference.
My financial advisor is very straight - he does everything by the book.	to go by the book / to do something by the book to do something exactly according to the rules or instructions, rather than in your own way, by following the official rules very strictly szigorúan betartja a hivatalos szabályokat Police must always go completely by the book when making arrests. My boss insists on doing everything by the book. They ran all the investigations by the book.
You have more experience with this, so I'm going to defer to you.	to defer to sy to agree to accept someone’s opinion or decision because you have respect for that person: hagyatkozik vkire, egyetért vkivel, egyetért és elfogadja vkinek a véleményét vagy döntését, mert az adott személyt tiszteli deferring to the experts We will defer to whatever the committee decides.
He deferred to his parents' wishes.	to defer to sg to agree to follow (someone else's decision, a tradition, etc.) követ vmit, egyetért, hogy követ vmit (döntést, szokást), hagyatkozik vmire The court defers to precedent in cases like these.
An edge case can be expected or unexpected.	edge case An edge case is a problem or situation that occurs only at an extreme (maximum or minimum) operating parameter. edge case, szélsőséges eset In programming, an edge case typically involves input values that require special handling in an algorithm behind a computer program.
After graduating from college, he was in limbo for a while, trying to decide what to do next.	to be in limbo to be in an uncertain or undecided state or condition, a situation in which nothing happens or changes for a long period of time, and it is difficult to make decisions or know what to do, often because you are waiting for something else to happen first függőben van, átmeneti állapotban van I’m in limbo now until I know whether I’ve got the job.
This is placeholder data, so you'll want to include the real numbers as soon as you have them.	placeholder 1. Placeholder name, a term or terms referring to something or somebody whose name is not known or, in that particular context, is not significant or relevant. 2. Filler text, text generated to fill space or provide unremarkable and/or standardised text. 3. Lorem ipsum, a standard Latin text most commonly used to demonstrate a font, typography or layout. placeholder, kitöltőszöveg The software maker found that a lot of people leave notes in their Word documents as placeholders to add more text, images, or charts. Sonos filed with an offering size of $100 million, a placeholder amount used to calculate fees that is likely to change.
It has been raining intermittently for the past several days.	intermittently = sporadically happening often but not regularly : not constant or steady időszakosan, váltakozóan, szórványosan, helyenként The gunfire was heard sporadically. [=intermittently] Occurrences of the disease were sporadically reported.
They scrubbed the game because of the bad weather.	to scrub = to cancel informal - to decide that (something, such as a game, performance, etc.) will not happen : to cancel (something) lemond We scrubbed the idea in the end. We haven’t really got enough money for the trip -- let’s just scrub it.
the intersection of line A and/with line B	intersection the act or process of crossing or intersecting metszet two possible points of intersection
I wrote a letter of complaint, and the airline have promised to look into the matter.	to look into sg = to investigate to try to find out the truth about a problem, crime etc in order to solve it In everyday English, people often say look into something rather than investigate something: megnéz, megvizsgál Police are looking into the disappearance of two children. But now the authority is also looking into the cost of modifying all of its windows.
The company is looking at the possibility of moving to a larger office.	to look at sg to think about or consider (something or someone) néz, megnéz vmit, gondolkodik vmin Just look at how successful she's been. I just haven't looked at him as (being) a potential roommate. The way I look at [=see] it, you're wrong. Some people are looking at her as a possible candidate for mayor. You can make changes in your life. Just look at Tim. [=consider that Tim has made changes and realize that you can also make changes] We need to look very carefully at ways of improving our efficiency.
You should get the doctor to look at that cut.	to look at sg to examine something and try to find out what is wrong with it: megnéz, megvizsgál vmit, és megpróbálja kitalálni, hogy mi a probléma vele You should have a doctor look at that bruise. I had the veterinarian look at my cat. Can you look at my car? There’s a strange noise coming from the front wheel.
The medication won't cure the disease but it will buy patients some time. [=it will allow patients to live longer]	to buy (sy) time to deliberately make more time for yourself to do something, for example by delaying a decision, to get more time for someone or something időt nyer ‘Can we talk about it later?’ he said, trying to buy a little more time.
The story was in the newspaper the following day.	the next day = the following day the day after something happened in the past másnap She called me and we arranged to meet the next day.
I'll see you next Monday.	next 1: coming after this one : coming after the one that just came, happened, etc. következő Next year's party will be even better. Are you coming this Thursday or next Thursday? [=are you coming on Thursday of this week or Thursday of next week?] The next time we will see each other will be on our wedding day. Next time, please remember to bring your books to class. in the next life [=in the afterlife; in the life that we may have after death]
He’s too young to come and in any case I want him to spend the time with Mom.	in any case whatever happens or happened, used to indicate that something is true or certain regardless of what else has happened or been said amúgy is I'm not sure if I'll be at the next meeting, but I'll see you Sunday in any case. [=I may or may not see you at the next meeting, but I'll definitely see you Sunday] In any case, you still owe me five dollars. There's no point complaining now—we're leaving tomorrow in any case. I don’t see why I couldn’t do it. In any case, I’m going to try.
They have had varying degrees of success.	degree of sg the level or amount of something mértéke, foka vminek 1960s Britain was characterised by a greater degree of freedom than before. a high degree of difficulty/skill We can now predict the weather with a greater degree of accuracy. [=with more accuracy]
After the accident her career had to be put on hold.	to put on hold if something is on hold, you have stopped it from happening now, but it may happen later, in the state of being delayed for a time elhalaszt Since having the kids, my career has been put on hold. The agent put me on hold while she consulted a colleague. Our vacation plans are on hold. = Our vacation plans have been put on hold.
Full-time employees are entitled to receive health insurance.	to be entitled to do sg [often passive] to give somebody the right to have or to do something jogosult vmire, fel van jogosítva vmire You will be entitled to your pension when you reach 65. Everyone's entitled to their own opinion. This ticket does not entitle you to travel first class.
They took cash in lieu of the prize they had won.	in lieu of something formal - instead of: vmi helyett extra time off in lieu of payment We work on Saturdays and have a day off in lieu during the week.
There’s enough fuel to keep us going for now.	for now = for the moment ~ for the time being from now until a time in the future, especially when you do not know exactly when in the future: most, jelenleg, egyelőre Just leave your shoes on the back porch for now. Such popular programmes will go on being broadcast on Channel 3 - for now.
This house is big enough for the moment, but we'll have to move if we have children.	for the moment = for now ~ for the time being from now until a time in the future, especially when you do not know exactly when in the future: most, jelenleg, egyelőre ‘The negotiations are continuing for the moment,’ a spokesman said. For the moment, I’m quite happy in the job I’m doing.
For the time being, Mrs Gilman’s classes will be taken by other teachers.	for the time being ~ for the moment = for now for a short period of time from now, but not permanently: egy rövid ideig, egyelőre Although the government aims to encourage private enterprise, around one third of the economy will remain under state control, for the time being. You’ll have to stay here for the time being.
You will be employed to assist in the development of new equipment.	to assist sy with / in sg formal - to help someone to do something segít vkinek vmiben The President was assisted with his speech. = The President was assisted in writing his speech. She assisted in making the decision.
I’m sorry, I was under the impression that you were the manager.	to be under the impression (that) to wrongly believe that something is true, because of something you have heard or seen: az volt a benyomása, hogy I was under the impression that you couldn’t get a parking ticket on private property. I was under the impression that the work had already been completed. The soldiers scattered, under the impression that it was an enemy attack.
Please note that the office will close today at noon.	to note formal - to notice or pay attention to (something) észrevesz, figyel valamire, figyelembe vesz Note that I have enclosed full payment with this letter. Please note that the bill must be paid within ten days. It should be noted that parking without a permit attracts a charge of £5.
The salesman has some wiggle room to reduce the price of the car.	wiggle room if someone leaves themselves some wiggle room, they do or say something in a way that allows them to change it later mozgástér, szabadság We should allow for some wiggle room [=flexibility] when we plan the schedule. The buyer still has some wiggle room when the deal is under contract. The amendment leaves no wiggle room for lawmakers. There is some wiggle room in the budget.
Ultimately, the decision rests with the child’s parents.	ultimately finally, after everything else has been done or considered végsősoron a long but ultimately successful campaign He ultimately [=finally, eventually] agreed to the deal. I have confidence that the plan will ultimately succeed. [=will succeed in the end] The changes ultimately proved to be unnecessary.
This policy is closely aligned with the goals of the organization.	to be aligned with sg [transitive usually passive] to organize or change something so that it has the right relationship to something else összehangol, egyeztet, igazodik vmihez Domestic prices have been aligned with those in world markets.
The schools had to align their programs with state requirements.	to align sg with sg [transitive usually passive] to organize or change something so that it has the right relationship to something else összehangol, egyeztet, igazít vmit vmihez We have closely aligned our research and development work with our business needs.
an accident that resulted in the death of two passengers	to result in sg = to cause sg to make something happen okoz vmit, eredményez vmit The disease resulted in his death. The cyclone has resulted in many thousands of deaths. These policies resulted in many elderly people suffering hardship.
a one-to-one correspondence between letters and sounds	one-to-one correspondence matching each other exactly kölcsönösen egyértelmű megfeleltetés
All citations are listed with inline links to the full text.	in-line = inline (of a reference, link or image) placed within written text írott szöveg között lévő Please see inline.
the automation of the factory	automation the use of computers and machines instead of people to do a job automatizáció Automation meant the loss of many factory jobs.
The winners are as follows: in third place, Mandy Johnson; in second place	as follows 1 used to introduce a list of things that you will mention next: a következő, a következők Our travel plans are as follows: start at the very bottom of Chile, and then go up. The names of the finalists are as follows: Mary, James, and George. Proceed as follows: go straight ahead to Martin Street and then turn left. Our prices are as follows:
The advantages may be summarised as follows:	as follows 2 used when you are going to give more details about something a következőképpen The judgment reads as follows: The parties agree as follows. (please) proceed as follows
Our address is the following [=as follows]: P.O. Box 234,…	the following the people or things that you are going to mention, the following one or ones — used to introduce a list, a quotation, etc. a következő, a következők The following have been selected to play in tomorrow’s game: Louise Carus, Fiona Douglas ... The finalists are the following: Mary, James, and George. = The following are the finalists: Mary, James, and George. The following are the times of departing trains: 2 p.m., 4 p.m., and 8 p.m.
I'll have to check with the manager before I can let you in.	to check with sy to talk with someone in order to get approval, information, etc., egyeztet vkivel, about something megkérdez vkit Check with your doctor to find out which drugs are safe. I'm not sure when you should arrive. I'll have to check that with my wife.
I am writing to inquire about your advertisement in ‘The Times’.	to inquire formal - to ask someone for information érdeklődik, kérdezősködik információért The waiter inquired whether we would like to sit near the window. ‘Where’s the station?’ she inquired of a passer-by. Toby would have liked to inquire further (=ask more questions). He was inquiring about a friend who used to work here. We inquired the way to the station.
You should cross-check your answers with a calculator.	to cross-check sg with sg / against sg to make certain that something is correct by using a different method to check it again ellenőríz vmivel / vmihez képest I cross-checked the changes against the original copy. [=I looked at the original copy to make sure that the changes were correct] Cross-check your answers with a calculator. Baggage should be cross-checked against the names of individual passengers.
Is the meeting at 4:00? Did I get that right?	"to get sg right to understand correctly, to have a clear understanding of something. In this usage, a noun or pronoun is used between ""get"" and ""right."" jól ért vmit Let me get this right (= understand correctly)—you want us to do an extra ten hours' work for no extra pay?"
In the 16th century, village life centered around religion.	to center around/round/on something if your thoughts, activities etc centre around something or are centred around it, it is the main thing that you are concerned with or interested in: valami körül forog Her life centers on/around her children. [=her children are the most important part of her life] The story centers on/upon a teenage girl. The investigation has centered [=focused] mainly on/upon the alleged misuse of public funds.
the need to define the scope of the investigation	scope the range of things that a subject, activity, book etc deals with hatókör, hatáskör, terület measures to limit the scope of criminals’ activities A full discussion of that issue is beyond the scope of this book. Let us extend the scope of the study to examine more factors. His efforts were too limited in scope to have much effect.
He's more comfortable with computers than with people.	to be comfortable with sy / sg confident, relaxed, and not worried otthonosan mozog vmivel kapcsolatban, magabiztos, nyugodt vmivel kapcsolatban She’s never felt very comfortable with men. In our business, we need people who are comfortable in an unstructured environment. I never feel very comfortable in her presence.
I've been having a hard time connecting with Stephanie, since she's been out of the office every time I've tried to call her.	to connect with sy on sg To communicate with someone. beszél valakivel I will connect with the team on this and revert.
To revert to the question of exams, I’d like to explain further.	to revert to sy / sg formal - to return to an earlier subject of conversation visszatér (valamilyen korábbi témára) Sensing her uneasiness, Joseph reverted to their discussion about the weather.
You will be notified of any changes in the system.	to notify sy of sg to formally or officially tell someone about something (hivatalosan) értesít vkit vmiről In August we were notified that our article had been rejected. She notified [=informed] the police about the accident. Customers were notified of the changes in the company. I was notified that I did not get the job.
He asked me, in all seriousness, if I would marry him next week.	in all seriousness spoken - say this when you are telling someone about something that will be hard for them to believe: komolyan She had heard someone say, in all seriousness, that women would never make good golfers because of the shape of their bodies. “I was the queen of England in a previous life,” she said in all seriousness. In all seriousness, if he does propose, what will you say?
Those who seriously attempt to kill themselves usually manage to do so.	seriously if you say or do something seriously, you really mean it, really intend to do it, or really think it is important: komolyan Are you seriously suggesting that she should give up her job in order to look after her husband? She was talking about children’s social education at a time when no one else was seriously concerned with it.
He'll very likely be late.	likely = most likely = very likely without much doubt, probably, Usage In U.S. English, the adverb likely is often used by itself without most, quite, very, etc., This use of likely has sometimes been criticized, but it is very common. It does not occur in highly formal writing. valószínűleg It will most likely rain tomorrow. [=it will probably rain tomorrow] “Will it rain tomorrow?” “Most likely.” She will more than likely not get the job. [=she will very probably not get the job] He will likely [=probably] be late. It will likely rain tomorrow.
He likes hockey as much as he likes basketball. [=he likes hockey and basketball equally]	as much as sg used to say that two things are equal in amount or degree ugyanannyira, mint, ugyanannyi, mint, annyi, amennyit, annyit, amennyit I hope you have as much fun as I did. Just do as much as you can. Take as much time as you like.
"In today's context of people's conversations, the phrase ""I'm not sure"" gives more positive approach and gives more reassuring effect to other people than saying ""I don't know""."	"I am not sure vs I don't know In today's context of people's conversations, the phrase ""I'm not sure"" gives more positive approach and gives more reassuring effect to other people than saying ""I don't know"". When you say ""I'm not sure"", other people might think that you have the idea about something but you are uncertain how would you validate or verify it. When you say ""I don't know"", other people might think that you don't have the idea about something. Sometimes, saying this might raise ignorance to other people (directly or not) and saying this has more negative weight of aura towards others. So therefore, some people say ""I'm not sure"" rather than ""I don't know"" so that they can tell other people that they're aware about something (especially when being asked). nem tudom"
It will take some time for the new secretary to get up to speed. [=to learn the job]	to get up to speed on sg You can also say that you get up to speed, meaning that you reach the point where you have all the latest information about something, having the knowledge that is needed to do or understand something, betanul The president has been getting up to speed on foreign policy. Please bring me up to speed on this matter. I'll feel better about it when I get up to speed on what's going on.
John will bring you up to speed (=tell you the latest information).	to bring (sy) up to speed on sg You can say that you bring someone up to speed, meaning that you give them all the latest information about something. betanít (vkit) vmiről I guess I should bring you up to speed on what's been happening since I came to see you yesterday. Let me bring you up to speed on our plans. [=let me tell you about the changes in our plans] The board of directors will have to be brought up to speed on these new developments.
I don't think we should be waiting for help to arrive—if anything, we need to keep moving.	if anything used to make a statement that strongly disagrees or contrasts with a preceding statement épp ellenkezőleg Sam didn’t seem too disappointed at losing. If anything, he seemed relieved that it was all over. Thank you for the compliment, but if anything, I've put on weight lately! Her success hasn't caused tension - if anything, it's helped our marriage. The situation is, if anything, worsening rather than improving.
Let's wait and see how things play out. [=take place, develop]	to play out to happen or occur in usually a gradual way történik The consequences of the error will play out for several years to come. Their personal tragedy was being played out in public.
The hotel was awful. But then again, you can’t expect much for £20 a night.	(but) then again From another standpoint; on the other hand ugyanakkor, másrészt, másfelől viszont He might go, and then again, he might not. ‘So you might accept their offer?’ ‘Yes, then again I might not.’ I need a vacation. Then again, so do my coworkers.
They were at a loss to explain [=they were unable to explain] why it took so long to correct the problem.	to be at a loss to do something to be confused and uncertain about what to do or say: nem tudja mit csináljon Detectives are so far at a loss to explain the reason for his death. He seemed, for once, at a loss for words (=unable to think what to say). I don't know what to do. I'm at a (complete) loss.
She's having a hard time adjusting to college life.	to have a hard time doing sg If you have a hard time doing something or with something, it is difficult for you. nehéz valamit csinálnia The school has had a hard time recruiting substitute teachers. He's been having a hard time with his research paper. I had a hard time persuading him to accept the offer.
As much as I'd like to see Paris or Rome someday, I'm pretty content to stay right here in my hometown for the time being.	as much as Regardless of or despite how much; although. bármennyire is As much as he hated the arrogant young man, Jonathan couldn't allow an innocent person to be arrested for a crime he didn't commit. As much as I hate to, I must stay home tonight,
70 per cent of homicides take place within the family.	homicide = murder the crime of killing someone, especially deliberately - used especially in American legal contexts: gyilkosság As yet no evidence has been found to suggest that this death was homicide. A newspaper article criticized his handling of a homicide case
He really enjoyed himself at the party.	to enjoy yourself to have a good time : to spend time doing something that gives you pleasure jól érzi magát Julia was just starting to enjoy herself. I haven’t enjoyed myself so much for a long time.
"I had a moment where I thought to myself, ""Why am I even working here?"""	"to think to oneself To have an inner monologue; to make a statement to oneself in one's mind, without saying it out loud. azt gondolja magában I'm sure they don't think to themselves, ""What if we're the bad guys?"" They just don't care."
My car’s over there by that big tree.	over there in a place that you can see or point to but cannot touch ott See those rocks over there? Be careful to keep the boat away from them. Would you like to sit over there by the window?
I'm sorry for/about yesterday.	to be sorry about sg vs to be sorry for sg So to sum up, it largely depends on two things, how specific the apology is (with 'for' being for the very specific), and how much responsibility you take (with 'for' implying greater personal responsibility). Given just those two option (there are others, such as 'I'm sorry that...) it depends on what you want to apologise for. To take two extremes, if it is something very specific, like arriving late for an appointment, you might say 'I'm sorry for being late', or 'Sorry I'm late'. It would be unusual to say 'Sorry about being late' If it is that you want to apologise more generally for some arrangements that have gone completely haywire, you might say 'I'm sorry about the shambles on Thursday'. You could also possibly say 'I'm sorry for the shambles on Thursday'. Using 'for' in this case does suggest very slightly your taking more responsibility for what happened than if you said 'Sorry about the shambles'. The latter could just mean that you are sorry it happened, but don't take too much responsibility. bocsánatot kér vmiért I'm sorry for/about my bad English. I'm sorry for/about that.
How about going to a movie? I would love to, but what about the kids? [meaning, we would have to arrange for their care.]	"how about vs what about How about"" when making a suggestion that I feel is best. I would use ""What about"" when I am less set on the idea and more willing to listen to other suggestions. ""What about ..."" is usually a way to bring an objection or potential obstacle into consideration in my experience, whereas ""how about ..."" expands, rather than restricts, the possibilities mi van vmivel"
We only made it to the concert a few minutes before it was supposed to begin.	to make it (to something or some place) To arrive (at some thing or location) successfully or on time. odaér időben I don't think I can make it back to camp—you go on without me! I can't believe we made it—I thought for sure that we would miss the flight!
Do you think she'll make it to graduation?	to make it to sg Reach a certain point or goal, eléri valamilyen célját We finally made it to Chicago. Do you think she'll make it to manager?
TGIF	TGIF Thank God It's Friday; a phrase used by people at the end of a working week when they are looking forward to two days of rest at the weekend Hála Istennek péntek TGIF
She gave him a heads-up that the company's president will be visiting the office.	heads-up US, informal - a message that tells or warns someone about something that is going to happen üzenet, ami értesít vagy figyelmeztet, hogy valami történni fog Here's a heads-up for investors in real-estate stocks. This note is just to give you a heads-up that Vicky will be arriving next week. They gave us a heads-up that the deal might be off.
A budget is defined as ‘a plan of action expressed in money terms’.	to define sg as sg to explain exactly the meaning of a particular word or idea definiál vmit vmiként Define precisely what you mean by ‘crime’. How would you define (the word) “grotesque”? Manual work is broadly defined as work that you do with your hands.
I made the assumption that he was coming, so I was surprised when he didn't show up.	assumption something that is believed to be true or probably true but that is not known to be true : something that is assumed feltételezés He will come home tomorrow. At least, that's my assumption. Many scientific assumptions about Mars were wrong.
‘Could you read through this report for me?’ ‘Will do.’	will do SPOKEN - used for telling someone that you will do what they have asked megteszem Will do. I'll get right on it. Will you fix the stuck window? Will do.
to speak with sy vs to speak to sy	"to speak with sy vs to speak to sy These two are more or less equivalent. They can both be used for the situation where A and B speak to each other. ""Speak to"" can also be used for the situation where A talks and B listens without speaking. You are more likely to encounter speak with in American English, which employs the verb + with construction (speak with, meet with) very much more than British English does. beszél vkivel"
These changes will reshape the future.	to reshape to give a new form or shape to (something) újraformál The body of the car was reshaped to allow for more cargo space. He reshaped the plot of his story
Whether or not we're successful, we can be sure that we did our best.	whether or not used to show that something is true in either of two cases akár ... akár nem We're going whether or not you decide to come along. = Whether or not you decide to come along, we're going. [=we're going if you decide to come with us and we're going if you decide not to come with us] Technology is reshaping the entire industry, he said, and that process is inevitable and will happen whether or not Deutsche Bank gets on board with the transformation.
More job losses are in the pipeline.	to be in the pipeline if something such as a new product or a change is in the pipeline, it is being planned and prepared and it will be ready soon: tervben van After considerable market research, several new products are now in the pipeline. More job losses are in the pipeline.
The rate of contribution to the pension plan is the same for all employees, regardless of age.	regardless of sg use this when what is done is not affected by different situations, problems etc: függetlenül vmitől, tekintet nélkül vmire Many people stick with their banks regardless of whether they offer the best deal. It may rain by the end of the day, but we plan to carry on regardless.
The job is open to anyone with the right qualifications, irrespective of their age.	irrespective of sg use this when the same thing happens in every case without being affected by facts such as age, size, time, or position: függetlenül vmitől, tekintet nélkül vmire Justice for all, irrespective of race or class, is everyone’s right. All children should have access to the latest technology, irrespective of where they live or how much their parents earn.
We organized a roster for cleaning the house	roster a list that shows the order in which a job or duty is to be done by the members of a group roster, beosztás duty roster I noticed that my name was not on the night duty roster.
The performers took the stage one by one.	one by one separately in a series egymás után, egyenként One by one each soldier approached the coffin and gave a final salute. One by one, the students were called in to be interviewed.
Absence = almost certainly Exclusive There will be no coffee until 9/22. (On 9/22, there will be coffee.) I won't be running the morning meeting until 9/22. (On 9/22, I will be running the morning meeting.)	until if something happens until or till a time or event, it continues and then stops at that time or event, It's exclusive if the situation described is notable by its absence. It's likely to be inclusive if the situation described is notable by its presence. valameddig Presence = likely Inclusive I'll be on vacation until 9/22. (On 9/22, I will be on vacation. Probably.) We'll have rain until 9/22. (On 9/22, it will be raining. Probably.) I'll be in the hospital until 9/22. (On 9/22, I will be in the hospital. Probably.)
Ruth and Al are going to move to Seattle.	to be going to do something especially spoken - if you are going to do something, you have arranged to do it at a particular time - use this to talk about definite arrangements: fog vmit csinálni I’m going to go to the hospital tomorrow. The committee is going to have several meetings to get student input.
The company is looking to increase its sales in Europe during the next two years.	to be looking to do something informal - to intend to achieve something that you are sure you can achieve: szeretne, akar vmit csinálni The Redskins will be looking to repeat their Super Bowl victory next season. a company looking to become a leader in the industry We're looking to create something new.
Monroe still refuses to talk about the events which led up to his resignation.	to lead up to sg if an event leads up to another event, it comes before it and often causes it to happen: vezet vmihez The book describes some of the events leading up to the First World War. There was a series of errors leading up to the accident the weeks that led up to her death the events leading up to his dismissal
The pilot had no recollection of the events leading up to the crash.	leading up to sg If a period of time or series of events leads up to an event or activity, it happens until that event or activity begins: vmihez vezetően, vmi előtt Leading up to the promotion and compensation communication day, we have scheduled a briefing session for employees to explain the Firm’s compensation philosophy. Many voters were still undecided in the days leading up to [=approaching] the election. I was very anxious in the time leading up to the event. The moments leading up to the accident are very confused in my mind.
We have scheduled a briefing session for employees to explain the Firm’s compensation philosophy, decision making process and communication logistics.	briefing the detailed instructions or information that are given at such a meeting eligazító, eligazítás Captain Trent gave his men a full briefing. a briefing session/paper
Given the circumstances, you’ve done really well.	given = considering taking something into account tekintve vmit, tekintettel vmire, figyelembe véve vmit Given that the patients have some disabilities, we still try to enable them to be as independent as possible. Given the bad conditions under which the work was done, she has done it very well. = Given the fact that the work was done under bad conditions, she has done it very well. Even given that the house is not in perfect condition, it's still a great buy!
At the first meeting we filter out all unsuitable candidates.	to filter out sg to remove words, information etc that you do not need or want: kiszűr vmit Given the nature of Value Pricing, the following accounts should be filtered out The purpose of the first interview is to filter out people who are not good candidates for the job.
The brother and sister returned to their respective [=own] bedrooms.	respective used before a plural noun to refer to the different things that belong to each separate person or thing mentioned: saját They are all very successful in their respective [=individual] fields. We all went back to our respective homes to wait for news. the respective roles of teachers and students
They agreed to meet again at a given location.	given used to refer to a particular time, place, etc., that has been, will be, or might be specified adott You'll have to finish the exam within a given (amount of) time. Climate has a great effect on the types of plants found in any given area. You never know what might happen on any given night.
Kia supplements her regular salary by tutoring in the evenings.	to supplement to add something, especially to what you earn or eat, in order to increase it to an acceptable level kiegészít (kereset, étel) He sells his paintings to supplement his income. = He supplements his income by selling his paintings. She began supplementing her diet with vitamins.
John and Bob complemented each other well.	to complement sg to make a good combination with someone or something else: kiegészít (vmivel) The dark red walls complement the red leather chairs. A simple string of pearls will complement any outfit.
Many scientists presumed the new damage to the forests to be the result of higher levels of pollution.	to presume to be fairly sure of something, especially because you have a good reason to think so, although you have no proof: feltételez The committee presumed that its decisions would be carried out. The defendant is presumed innocent until proved guilty.
Presumably, he'll come later. = He'll presumably come later. = He'll come later, presumably. [=it is reasonable to think that he will come later]	presumably very likely — used to say what you think is likely to happen or be true even though you are not sure valószínűleg There was hardly any furniture in the house, presumably [=probably] because they didn't have much money. It’s raining, which presumably means that your football match will be cancelled.
The car is being sold as is.	as is chiefly US: in the present condition without any changes a jelenlegi állapotában She bought the clock at an auction as is. I believe my process is fine as is. We’ve agreed to take the house as is.
We named our daughter Sarah.	to name sy sg = to call sy sg to give someone or something a particular name vkit vhogy hív He was named after his father. The street is named after the famous South African leader, Nelson Mandela. The college is named for George Washington.
My name’s Virginia, but my friends call me Ginny.	to call sy sg = to name sy sg to have a particular name or title, or use a particular name or title for someone or something vkit vhogy hív Do you want to be called Miss or Ms?
To make a point about the need for a design revision, she showed how a single grain of sand could cause the entire mechanism to seize up.	to make a point To state or demonstrate something of particular importance. mondja vagy megmutatja a lényeget Stop interrupting me—I'm trying to make a point! I suppose the people who wrote that stuff on the wall were trying to make a point, but they mainly made a mess.
The point I am trying to make is the media is not reporting the true state of affairs.	the point I am trying to make is that ... The point I am trying to make is that...' is a way of introducing what you want to say, usually to make it very clear for the person who is listening a lényegnek azt tartom, arra akarok kilyukadni The point I am trying to make is executives always exaggerate.
The building should be finished early next year.	early late near the beginning of a period of time, event, process etc vminek az elején early this/next/last year etc The restaurant opened earlier this month.
Can you split into groups of three now?	to split, split, split to divide or separate something into different parts or groups, or to be divided into different parts or groups elválaszt, szétválaszt The book is split into six sections.
More and more, we are finding that people want to continue working beyond 60.	more and more = increasingly 1 used to say that a quality, situation etc gradually increases egyre inkább As the disease worsened, he found walking more and more difficult.
a safe investment	safe not involving any risk and very likely to be successful: biztonságos a safe method of contraception I think it’s safe to say that the future is looking pretty good.
Dinner is ready.	ready not used before a noun : properly prepared or finished and available for use kész The college's new dormitory will be ready (by) next year. Your prescription will be ready in about 20 minutes. The car won't be ready until tomorrow. We got everything ready for the party before the guests arrived.
She was the first to drop out of the band.	to drop out of sg to no longer do an activity or belong to a group: nem folytat vmilyen tevékenységet vagy nem tartozik valamilyen csoportba The group gets smaller as members move away or drop out.
The company lost a great deal of money. Hence, the CEO was asked to resign.	hence formal - for this reason ezért He was a newcomer and hence [=consequently, therefore] had no close friends here. He knew he could not win the election—hence his decision to withdraw.
As long as the school system keeps offering uncompetitive wages, people looking for jobs will apply elsewhere.	uncompetitive not good enough to compete successfully with others : not competitive nem versenyképes
I found myself snowed under with work.	to be snowed under with sg informal - to have more work than you can deal with el van havazva, nagyon sok munkája van We’re snowed under with applications for the job. I am totally snowed under at school
Would you mind doing me a small favor?	do you mind doing sg / would you mind doing sg used to make a polite request megkér vkit vmire Do you mind me/my sitting here? [=would you be bothered if I sat here?] Do you mind if I smoke? = Would you mind if I smoked? I'm tired. Would you mind leaving a little early? = Would you mind it if we left a little early?
The fact that bridge information is part of the incident also provides a huge advantage in that responders now have full incident context before they jump on the bridge, and don’t need to waste precious time (when time can = downtime) getting oriented on what’s happening.	to jump on the bridge = to jump onto the bridge to ask a person to join the conference call/meeting. megkéri vkit, hogy csatlakozzon egy meetinghez / conference callhoz
The campaign was at best only partially successful.	at best used to refer to a result, condition, etc., that is the best one possible even though it is not very good a legjobb esetben (is) The work won't be finished for another three months at best. The technique is at best ineffective and at worst dangerous. The company won't make a profit this year. At best, they'll break even.
At a minimum, we must recruit two new teachers.	at a minimum / at the minimum used to say that if nothing else is done, this one thing should be done: minimum, legalább At a minimum, the dispute threatens to delay the start of the exhibition season. Ten years is the minimum needed. = We'll need 10 years at a/the minimum. [=we'll need at least 10 years]
the handover of power from the old government to the new government	handover the act or process of giving control of someone or something to another person, country, etc. átadás a smooth handover of power the handover of the business The handover to civilian government has been delayed. The president will remain in office until the official handover in April.
On his retirement, he handed the business over to his son.	to hand (sg) over to sy to give someone power or responsibility over something which you used to be in charge of átad vmit vkinek Political control has been handed over to religious leaders. They demanded that he hand the documents over to them. They agreed to hand over their hostages.
The ship was heading for Cuba.	to head for/towards/back etc to go or travel towards a particular place, especially in a deliberate way megy vhová, tart vhová It’s about time we were heading home. We headed south towards the capital.
He attended the conference for a chance to touch base with other people in the computer industry.	to touch base with sy informal - to talk as a way of learning about recent news beszél vkivel Let's get together for lunch next week to touch base. I’ll call her next week just to touch base. I just wanted to quickly touch base with you: did you get an email from my secretary about the meeting?
‘Lunch is ready!’ ‘I’ll be right there.’	I’ll be right with you/right there/right back spoken - used to ask someone to wait because you are coming or returning very soon: mindjárt ott van / visszajön Don’t go away; I’ll be right back.
The party was a big deal.	big deal something that is very important nagy dolog, fontos dolog The cost didn't seem like much to me, but I know it was a big deal for many people. So I'm late. What's the big deal? [=why is that important?]
Flying is no big deal to him.	no big deal to sy something that is very important - often used in negative statements nem nagy dolog vkinek Don't worry, it's no big deal. [=it's not a problem] It’s no big deal. Everybody forgets things sometimes.
“She's going to be angry.” “Big deal.” [=so what?]	big deal something that is very important - sometimes used ironically as an interjection to say that something is not important to you nagy dolog “You broke it!” “Big deal.” [=I don't care] It’s just a game. If you lose, big deal.
This orange is nice and juicy.	nice and ... pleasantly, used before adjectives or adverbs to emphasize how pleasant something is jó vmilyen, kellemesen vmilyen It was nice and warm yesterday. Everyone arrived nice and early. It’s nice and quiet in here. I like my coffee nice and strong.
He was a good basketball player but he never made (it to) the big time.	the big time the highest or most successful level of an activity csúcs The group performed in small clubs for years before hitting the big time [=becoming very successful] with a record deal. The 46-year-old author has finally hit the big time.
You’d better not screw up this time.	to screw up informal - to make a bad mistake or do something very stupid elcsesz Sorry about that, I screwed up. You really screwed up this time.
The waiter screwed up our order.	to screw sg up = screw up sg informal - to make a bad mistake or do something very stupid elcsesz vmit This performance is important, so don't screw it up.
I’m really sorry – it’s all my fault.	it is sy's fault RESPONSIBLE FOR MISTAKE - if something bad that has happened is your fault, you should be blamed for it, because you made a mistake or failed to do something: vkinek a hibája It’s your fault we’re late. I didn’t sleep well that night, but it was my own fault. It’s my fault for not making your new job clearer.
I can squeeze you in at four o'clock.	to squeeze sy/sg in = to squeeze in sy/sg to find time for (someone or something), to manage to meet someone or do something although you are very busy: betesz, talál időt, bepasszíroz How do you manage to squeeze so much into one day? I can try to squeeze you in after my one o'clock appointment. The teacher tried to squeeze in a few more lessons before school vacation.
All things considered, we had surprisingly few injuries.	all things considered when you consider all the parts or events of a situation: mindent figyelembe véve, mindent egybevetve All things considered, I’m sure we made the right decision. All things considered, we're pleased with how the project turned out. It was a pretty good vacation, all things considered.
I feel like a long, hot soak in the bath.	to feel like sg / doing sg especially spoken - to want to have something or do something, because you think you would enjoy it: akar vmit It’s a lovely day - do you feel like a walk? I feel like watching a movie tonight.
I don’t feel like writing that essay today.	not feel like doing sg specially spoken - to not want to do something, especially because you think you would not enjoy it or because you feel too lazy: nem akar vmit csinálni Some days she just doesn’t feel like going to work. I had a really big lunch, so I don’t feel like anything just now.
I’ve already started to make plans for the wedding - there’s so much to do.	to make plans to think about and talk about something that you intend to do, especially something that needs to be carefully planned: tervet készít We sat around the table, talking, laughing, and making plans. Mary has been busy making plans for her wedding.
It reminded me of evenings back home.	back home in the place that you come from and think of as your home (nálunk) otthon People back home [=in his hometown; in the place he is from] would never believe how much he has changed The folks back home don’t really understand what life is like here. He’s been travelling, but he’s kept up with what’s going on back home.
The decision has been made – there’s no point in second-guessing it now.	to second-guess US - to criticize or question the actions or decisions of someone (utólag) kritizál Don't second-guess the umpire. = Don't second-guess the umpire's decision.
I didn’t have the balls to ask.	balls informal, not polite - the courage that is needed to do something bátorság (csúnya) You don't have the/enough balls [=guts, nerve] to fight me.
Lori gets embarrassed if we ask her to sing.	embarrassed feeling uncomfortable or nervous and worrying about what people think of you, for example because you have made a silly mistake, or because you have to talk or sing in public: zavarban lévő He looked embarrassed when I asked him where he’d been. Ken gave her an embarrassed grin. I felt embarrassed about how untidy the house was. He was embarrassed to admit making a mistake.
‘How much is this painting worth?’ ‘I’m sorry, I’ve no idea.’	to have no idea = to not have a clue especially spoken - say this when you know nothing at all about the answer to a question, so that you cannot even guess what it might be fogalma sincsen When I asked where Louise had gone, he said he didn’t have a clue. That guy obviously doesn’t have a clue how to put a Web page together. I fell asleep half way through the film, and I have absolutely no idea how it ended.
You’ll probably find Dave at the pool hall -- he often hangs out there.	to hang out informal - to be or stay somewhere for a period of time without doing much van valahol egy ideig anélkül, h csinálna vmit The gang hangs out at the corner store. Our dog spends all his time hanging out [=hanging around] on the front porch. She knew all the clubs where he usually hung out.
I used to hang out with them when I was at college.	to hang out with sy informal - to spend time relaxing, talking, or doing something with (someone) : to hang around with (someone) van vkivel He spent a couple of days hanging out with his old friends
His mood suddenly altered and he seemed a little annoyed.	to alter to change - use this especially about someone’s feelings or behaviour, or about a situation: változik His defence lawyer said that Wilson’s lifestyle had altered dramatically since the offences three years ago. Her face hadn’t altered much over the years.
Our computer problems were caused by a hiccup in the power supply.	hiccup a small problem which is not very important compared to other things: hiba There was a slight hiccup when I couldn’t find my car keys, but finally we set off. The airline industry’s troubles are a mere hiccup in an otherwise upward growth trend. The stock market has continued to rise, except for a slight hiccup earlier this month.
A technical glitch caused a temporary shutdown.	glitch a small fault in the way something works, that can usually be corrected easily, especially : a minor problem with a machine or device (such as a computer) hiba As the glitches are found and corrected, the process is speeding up. A glitch in the system shut down the telephone service to nearly 6 million customers. NASA officials found a way to work around the technical glitch on the Galileo spacecraft. computer/software glitches
I don’t know what’s going on.	to go on to happen történik What were the children doing while all this was going on? Like all good resorts, there is plenty going on. No one knows exactly what went on during their private meeting.
It's pretty good, huh?	huh chiefly US — used at the end of a statement to ask whether someone agrees with you mi Not a bad little place, huh? I'll bet you wish you hadn't done that, huh? Pretty cool, huh?
We were each paired with a newcomer to help with training.	to pair with sy to put people or things into groups of two, or to form groups of two párba állít The suit is paired with black shoes for a sophisticated look. The fish was paired with a white wine. We met when we were paired to work together on the project.
The company has decided to get out of the computer business.	to get out of sg to stop being in or involved in (something) or to cause (someone or something) to stop being in or involved in (something) abbahagy vmit She got her money out of the stock market. I wanted to get out of teaching.
Quit being a smart-ass and behave yourself.	smart-ass = wise guy (noun) American informal + impolite - someone who annoys you because they make jokes or give answers in a rude but funny way: seggfej OK, smart-ass! If I want an answer from you I’ll ask for it.
Some smart-ass college kid started making fun of her accent.	smart-ass (adjective) American informal + impolite - someone who annoys you because they make jokes or give answers in a rude but funny way: seggfej a smart-assed remark a smart-ass attitude
‘Have you got a camera?’ ‘No.’ ‘You should buy one (=buy a camera).'	one used to mean someone or something of a type that has already been mentioned or is known about: valami, ami már említve volt The train was crowded so we decided to catch a later one (=catch a later train). The only jokes I tell are the ones that I hear from you. I like all the pictures except this one.
My back has been bad ever since I fell and hurt it two years ago.	ever since continuously since folyamatosan azóta We’ve been friends ever since we were at school together. She’s been terrified of the sound of aircraft ever since the crash. We came to the UK in 1974 and have lived here ever since.
a lawyer who kicks ass in the courtroom	to kick ass American English informal not polite - used to say that someone or something is very good or impressive: nagyon jó Tucson pop band Shoebomb kick some serious ass. Our team kicked ass in the soccer tournament.
I've known them for a long time. [=many years]	long lasting or continuing for a great amount of time hosszú I haven't seen them for/in a (very) long time. = (US) I haven't seen them for the longest time. The changes took a long time to come. = The changes were long in coming. [=the changes did not happen quickly] It happened a long time ago. [=far in the past; not at all recently] The test should take an hour at the longest. [=it should not be longer than an hour] She is used to working long hours. [=she often works for many hours at a time] He has a very long memory. [=he remembers things that happened far in the past] someone with long experience in the UN [=someone who has been in the UN many years]
"A: ""Hey Dan, the network crashed this morning."" B: ""Not again!"""	Not again! spoken - say this when something annoying happens again or happens too many times: Ne, már megint! ‘Not again!’ said Anna, as the word CANCELLED appeared next to her flight number for the third time. Oh, not again! I just fixed that leak yesterday! ‘Sue, Steve’s on the phone asking for you.’ ‘Oh, not again!’
‘Can you pick me up later?’ ‘Sure thing.’	sure thing spoken informal - used to agree to something: rendben “Can you be here in five minutes?” “Sure thing.”
‘Hi Jane. How’s it going?’ ‘Fine, thanks.’	how are things going?/how’s it going?/how goes it? spoken - used to ask someone what is happening in their life, especially used as a greeting: mi újság
No matter how hard she tried, she just didn't fit in.	to fit in if someone fits in, they are accepted by the other people in a group: beilleszkedik I never really fitted in at school. I wasn’t sure if she would fit in with my friends. I was looking for a group that I could fit in with.
After two trial runs we did it for real.	for real 1 seriously, not just pretending, seriously or truly komolyan He's in trouble for real. [=he's really in trouble] They were just pretending to argue before, but now they're doing it for real.
Is that guy for real?	for real 2. US - honest and serious komoly(an gondolja) He convinced us that he was for real and really wanted to help.
Speaking of money, have we paid our credit card bills yet?	"speaking of sg used for introducing something new that you are going to say relating to a subject that someone has just mentioned, with regards to the subject just mentioned vmiről beszélve Speaking of Jill, where is she? A: ""We need to get the tires checked on the car soon."" B: ""Speaking of tires, I need a new one for my bike, too."""
The dinner was delicious, but the dessert was mediocre.	mediocre not very good közepes The carpenter did a mediocre job. a mediocre wine The critics dismissed him as a mediocre actor.
Take your time, think the matter over carefully, and then tell me what you’ve decided.	Take your time! say this when you want someone to do something more slowly and without hurrying, especially so that they do it carefully and properly: Nem kell elsietni! Csak szép lassan! Just take your time, and speak slowly and clearly. I need to take my time and think about it for a while. There's no need to hurry. Take your time. [=take all the time you need]
He was a little freaked out by the accident.	to freak out sy [+ object] to make (someone) very upset felzaklat vkit, kiborít vkit It freaks me out to see people being so violent. She was freaked out by what you said.
People just freaked out when they heard the news.	to freak out [no object] : to become very upset kiborul, zaklatottá válik She really freaked out. He freaked out when he saw his girlfriend kiss another guy.
Development agencies should double down on efforts to encourage saving and investments in small businesses.	to double down on sg By extension, to significantly increase or strengthen effort, investment, or resolve toward some goal, strategy, or action so as to maximize the potential yield as a result. jelentősen növel vagy erősíti az effortot vagy befektetést Why double down on these disastrous policies? Expect to see Fox double down on its marketing efforts to give the movie a big boost.
Yikes! Is it really midnight already?	yikes said when something frightens or shocks you jaj!, juj! Yikes, I didn't see you there.
Forensic experts found traces of blood in the car.	forensic relating to the scientific methods used for finding out about a crime törvényszéki, bírósági a career in forensic science a forensic pathologist
a career in forensics	forensics the use of scientific tests to solve crimes tudományos tesztek használata, hogy megoldjunk bűneseteket
He’s always been a bit of a maverick.	maverick an unusual person who has different ideas and ways of behaving from other people, and is often very successful: különc, a maga útján járó ember He's always been a (bit of a) maverick in the world of fashion. political mavericks [=nonconformists]
Enjoy everything in moderation, but don't overdo it.	everything in moderation if you do something in moderation, such as drinking alcohol or eating certain foods, you do not do it too much mindent mértékkel, mindent módjával
She believes in doing things in moderation.	in moderation if you do something in moderation, such as drinking alcohol or eating certain foods, you do not do it too much mértékkel, módjával Some people think drinking in moderation can prevent heart disease. Some people say that drinking alcohol in moderation can be good for you.
He often eats to excess. [=excessively]	to excess more than is usual, normal, or proper túlzottan sokat college students who drink to excess [=who drink too much] The government enthusiastically supports US foreign policy, sometimes to excess. He drank to excess, occasionally causing scenes in front of CIA officials.
We were all blindsided by the news of her sudden death.	to be blindsided by sg to be surprised or shocked by (someone) in a very unpleasant way meglepett, sokkolt vmitől Just when it seemed life was going well, she was blindsided by a devastating illness.
She said she’d pass the message on to the other students.	to pass sg on to sy to give (information) to another person továbbad (információt) vkinek Doctors need to pass this information on to their patients. Everyone's invited to the party. Pass it on! [=tell people that everyone is invited]
The building has suffered from years of poor maintenance.	maintenance the act of maintaining something or someone karbantartás, kezelés the costs of routine car maintenance a maintenance worker [=a worker whose job is to keep property or equipment in good condition] a maintenance fee
‘Dad, can you help me with this maths homework?’ ‘Alright, but shouldn’t you really do it by yourself?’	alright = all right spoken - say this especially when you do not really want to do what someone is asking or telling you to do: na jól van, rendben (de nem igazán akarod megcsinálni) ‘I’d really like to see you some time this week.’ ‘Oh, all right then, how about a quick drink after work?’
‘You need to be there by ten o’clock.‘ ’Right.'	right used in speech to say you understand and accept what someone has said rendben, oké “It's getting late.” “Oh, right. I'll be ready in a minute.” “I'd like a coffee, please.” “Right.” = “Right you are.”
It's hard to keep track of what's going on.	to keep track of sg to be aware of how something is changing, what someone is doing, etc. figyel vmire, szem előtt tart vmit, nyomon követ vmit Keep track of your little brother for me, will you? It's her job to keep track of how the money is spent. I watch the news to keep track of current events.
As of now, there is no cure for multiple sclerosis.	as of now American - use this to say that something is true or happening now, but will probably change in the future: jelenleg, most (de a jövőben változhat) My plan, as of now, is to graduate in May then start looking for a job in the fall.
The medicine needs be taken for a short period of time; i.e., three to five days.	i.e. that is — used to introduce something that explains a preceding statement more fully or exactly azaz The film is only open to adults, i.e. people over 18.
She wants to stay in the loop as these changes are being considered.	in the loop informal - the loop : a group of people who know about or have influence or control over something — usually used in the phrases in the loop and out of the loop, belonging or not belonging to a group that has information and makes decisions about something if a person is in the loop, he or she is one of the group of people who receive information about important subjects or who are involved in making important decisions információkörforgásban
He claims that he was kept out of the loop when the decision to sell the company was being made.	out of the loop informal - the loop : a group of people who know about or have influence or control over something — usually used in the phrases in the loop and out of the loop belonging or not belonging to a group that has information and makes decisions about something információkörforgáson kívül
You will find the invoice attached to the box.	invoice a bill given to you by a company or organization, which tells you how much you owe them for goods, services or work that they have provided: számla They sent him an invoice at the end of the month. We have received an invoice for $250.
We will reimburse you for your travel expenses. = We will reimburse your travel expenses.	to reimburse sy for sg to pay someone an amount of money equal to an amount that person has spent — often + for megtérít, visszafizet vkinek vmit I should be reimbursed for the fees. The company will reimburse you for travel expenses.
If you’re still not satisfied, you may be able to claim compensation.	to claim sg to officially demand or receive money from an organization because you have a right to it igényt tart vmire He should be able to claim the price of the ticket back. He's not entitled to claim unemployment benefit. She claimed damages from the company for the injury she had suffered.
He makes terrific chili.	terrific informal: extremely good nagyon jó She's given me some terrific ideas. Your test scores were terrific. They did a terrific job painting the house. I had a terrific time.
He's doing OK in math.	OK = all right [not before noun] if you are OK, you are not ill, injured, or unhappy rendben Are you OK? Do you feel OK now? Mum’s doing OK now. “How did you do at the interview?” “I think I did okay.”
The machine enables us to create copies without losing quality.	to enable sy to do sg to make it possible for someone to do something, or for something to happen lehetővé tesz vkinek vmit The system enables students to access class materials online. These choices are part of what enabled the company to be successful.
Air transport is a key enabler of world trade.	enabler a person or thing that makes something possible személy vagy dolog, aki / ami lehetővé tesz valamit Quality education is the critical enabler for the development of any nation. Information technology is an enabler, but not the whole solution.
The prisoner somehow worked his way out of the handcuffs.	to work sy's way to move yourself into or out of a particular position slowly or with difficulty valamilyen helyzetbe kerül / helyzetből kikerül lassan vagy nehézségek árán I worked my way to the center of the crowd. They started working their way cautiously down the side of the mountain. She is slowly working her way to the top of the company.
to work your way through college, round the world/college/university etc	to work your way through college, round the world/college/university etc to have a job or series of jobs while studying, travelling, etc. in order to pay for your education, etc. dolgozik mialatt tanul/utazik
To be blunt, many of the candidates cannot read or write.	blunt 2 speaking in an honest way even if this upsets people őszinte, nyílt, nyers, kendőzetlen Julian’s blunt words hurt her. blunt language a blunt statement To be perfectly blunt, I find her annoying. He was blunt about needing more privacy. She is blunt about her personal life.
Let's wrap this meeting up.	to wrap up sg = to wrap sg up to finish or end (something) befejez valamit vagy befejeződik vmi The teacher quickly wrapped up her lecture toward the end of class. The meeting wrapped up [=ended] at four o'clock.
‘Do you mind if I open the window?’ ‘No, go ahead.’	to go ahead spoken - used to give someone permission to do something, or let them speak before you: csináld nyugodtan vagy mondd nyugodtan If you want to leave, go right ahead. Despite the bad weather, they decided to go ahead with the party. My boss told me to go ahead (with the work). “Could I sit here?” “Sure, go (right) ahead.”
Try to paraphrase the question before you answer it.	to paraphrase to express what somebody has said or written using different words, especially in order to make it easier to understand átfogalmaz, más szavakkal elmond, körülír To paraphrase Finkelstein, mathematics is a language, like English. He paraphrased the quote. She frequently paraphrases (the words of) famous authors in her lectures.
that's all from my side	"that's all from my side ""From my side"" would imply to me that there are two sides and that there is some sort of argument, disagreement or negotiation going on, as in ""you haven't heard my side of the story"", ""you're taking her side"", or ""there are two sides to every argument."" It could mean something else, but that would be my first impression. ennyi az én oldalamról"
That's all I have for now. = That's it from me for today = That's all from me. = That's it from me. = That's it from my end. = That's everything.	That's all I have for now. = That's it from me for today = That's all from me. = That's it from me. = That's it from my end. = That's everything. That's all I have for now. = That's it from me for today = That's all from me. = That's it from me. = That's it from my end. = That's everything. ez minden, amit mondani tudok
Things will get better over time.	over time gradually idővel, fokozatosan The research project will be assessed over time. Students are encouraged to consider the way language changes over time.
That experience is one I'd rather forget!	experience something that you have done or that has happened to you élmény He wrote about his experiences as a pilot. She had a frightening experience.
The court appointed him custodian of the dead author's manuscripts.	custodian of sg someone who is responsible for looking after something important or valuable őre, felügyelője vminek Farmers are custodians of the land for the next generation.
the university's criteria for admission	criterion, pl. criteria a standard that you use to judge something or make a decision about something: kritérium High test scores are one criterion [=standard] used by universities to determine which students to admit. What were the criteria used to choose the winner? Our main criterion for hiring new employees is that they have a lot of past work experience.
The popularity of the treatment attests to its effectiveness. [=shows that it is effective].	to attest to sg to show, prove, or state that something is true or real bizonyít, tanúsít vmit I can attest that what he has said is true. The certificate attests the authenticity of the painting.
The Supreme Court has validated the lower court’s interpretation of the law.	to validate = to confirm formal - to prove that something is true or correct, or to make a document or agreement officially and legally acceptable jóváhagy, megerősít, igazol, érvényesít Many scientists plan to wait until the results of the study are validated by future research. The claims cannot yet be validated. [=confirmed] experiments that are designed to validate [=prove] a hypothesis
bathroom tiles	tile a flat square piece of baked clay or other material, used for covering walls, floors etc: csempe decorative ceramic tiles We installed new tile in the kitchen.
The package was misaddressed and delivered to the wrong house.	to misaddress to address (someone or something) incorrectly or improperly félrecímez vagy rosszul címez We have now corrected the error in our computer records which resulted in our letters to you being misaddressed.
That letter was addressed to me.	to address sg to sy 1. if you address an envelope, package etc, you write on it the name and address of the person you are sending it to címez vmit vkinek Send a stamped, self-addressed envelope (=with your address on it so it can be sent back to you).
We're all curious about how the mayor plans to address the issue.	to address sg formal - if you address a problem, you start trying to solve it, to give attention to (something) : to deal with (a matter, issue, problem, etc.) elkezdi próbálni megoldani, foglalkozik vmivel, próbálja megoldani Air pollution is one of the many problems being addressed by the scientists at the conference. The principal held a meeting to address the students' concerns. Our products address the needs of real users.
She was leading at the halfway mark/point of the race.	halfway in the middle between two points félúton, középen We're halfway toward completing the project. He chased Kevin halfway up the stairs. It was a terrible film – I left halfway through. traffic queues stretching back halfway to London I was halfway home when I realized I had forgotten my briefcase. The project isn't done yet, but we're halfway there.
If the interviewer likes you, you’re halfway there.	to be halfway there to have done something that will allow you to achieve something else félig nyert ügye van Establish the right relationships at work and you’re halfway there. Take your time, build up a case, establish the right relationships and you are halfway there.
I left halfway through the film.	halfway through sg in the middle of an event or period of time: vminek a közepén (esemény, idő) The teacher stopped the movie halfway through. We left halfway through the lecture. We're about halfway through the project.
She wanted to pursue her own career in parallel with her husband’s.	in parallel with sg at the same time and in a way that is related or connected párhuzamosan vmivel, egyidőben Prices are rising in parallel with increasing fuel costs. The two systems work in parallel.
You can make the change if you want, provided (that) the change makes sense.	provided (that) used to say that one thing must happen or be true in order for another thing to happen feltéve, (hogy) You can still get health care, provided (that) you pay the cost yourself. He can come with us, provided he pays for his own meals.
The plane crashed, killing all 200 people aboard.	aboard on, onto, or within a train, a ship, an airplane, etc. fedélzet, fedélzeten, fedélzetre He climbed aboard just as the train was leaving. Everyone aboard was injured in the accident. The boat swayed as he stepped aboard.
Welcome aboard!	Welcome aboard! used to welcome passengers or a person joining a new organization, etc. Üdv a fedélzeten!
Applicants should hold a college degree, preferably with experience in the lab.	preferably used to say what is most wanted or preferred lehetőleg, ideális esetben I'd like to have the work done soon, preferably by the end of the week. Students must take two years of a foreign language, preferably Spanish.
The exam will probably take you the whole hour to complete, possibly [=perhaps, maybe] even longer.	possibly = perhaps = maybe 1 used when saying that something may be true or likely, although you are not completely certain SYN perhaps, maybe: talán, esetleg This last task is possibly the most difficult. It will take three weeks, possibly longer. ‘Will you be here tomorrow?’ ‘Possibly. The doctor says I might possibly regain full use of my hand.
Could you possibly close that window?	could/can you possibly 3 — spoken - used to ask for something politely esetleg Could you possibly get me some bread and milk while you're out? Could you possibly give me a lift to work?
I need your input on what to have for dinner.	input advice or opinions that help someone make a decision, ideas, advice, money, or effort that you put into a job or activity in order to help it succeed tanács, vélemény Farmers contributed most of the input into the survey. We’ll need input from community nurses. She provided some valuable input at the start of the project.
We work together whenever we get a chance.	to have a chance = to get a chance to have / to get an opportunity for you to do something, especially something that you want to do van lehetősége I’d like a job in which I get the chance to travel.
What would you say, given the chance to talk to her again?	given the chance if you had the opportunity ha lehetőséged lett volna rá
Informed sources told us of the new policy.	informed having information, having a lot of knowledge or information about a particular subject or situation: tájékozott, informált Informed sources said it was likely that the president would make a televised statement. fully informed citizens/consumers/voters Please keep me informed on any changes. [=please tell me about any changes when they happen]
Ping me later in the week.	to ping sy informal - to contact someone by phone or email kapcsolatba lép vkivel telefonon vagy emailben We'll ping you with confirmation of your booking. Ping me – we’ll do lunch.
Few things are more daunting than having to speak in front of a large crowd.	daunting frightening in a way that makes you feel less confident: félelmetes, rémisztő The trip seemed rather daunting for a young girl. He’s got the daunting task of following in Ferguson’s footsteps. the daunting prospect of asking for a loan a daunting [=intimidating, overwhelming] task
Evans advised him to leave London.	to advise sy to do sg [intransitive and transitive] to tell someone what you think they should do, especially when you know more than they do about something: tanácsol vkinek, hogy vmit csináljon You are strongly advised to take out medical insurance when visiting China. She needed someone to advise her. ‘Make sure that you keep the documents in a safe place,’ Otley advised him.
We were thinking of buying that house, but our lawyer advised against it.	to advise sy against (doing) something [intransitive and transitive] to tell someone what you think they should do, especially when you know more than they do about something: tanácsol vkinek, hogy vmit ne csináljon I’d advise you against saying anything to the press.
The right onboarding process can make a huge difference in the long-term performance of a new employee.	onboarding the process of ensuring a new employee or customer becomes familiar with an organization or its products or services onboarding, nincs rá igazán jó magyar szó, inkább csak körülírni tudjuk. Munkahelyi belilleszkedést, munkahelyi szocilaizációt jelent. We offer a full training and onboarding programme. Client onboarding is a critical time for any business. According to experts, in an overtly competitive marketplace where talent is in short supply, a well-designed onboarding strategy is a differentiator in attracting and retaining employees.
He carefully placed the vase upon the table.	upon formal - on valamin, valamire They built their city upon a cliff overlooking the sea. She was seated upon a throne. an assault upon traditional values
shall vs. should	"shall vs. should ""Shall I?"" is an offer. You are poised to take that course of action and are asking if they confirm your decision. It often implies that the speaker is leaning towards the affirmative. ""Do/Should I?"" is a request. You are asking what ought to be done. It can be used as above, but does not always indicate the speaker's preferred action and often indicates doubt or ignorance of the proper choice. Both are correct, should is more polite, shall is probably, less used. shall vs. should"
He was cognizant of the peculiarities of the case.	to be cognizant of sg [not before noun] formal - if someone is cognizant of something, they know about it and understand it tudatában van vmi, tud vmiről He is cognizant of his duties as a father. cognizant of the importance of the case
The copy closely matches the original.	to match SEEM THE SAME [intransitive and transitive] if two things match, or if one matches the other, there is no important difference between them, to be in agreement with (something) ugyanaz, stimmel The suspect matched the descriptions provided by witnesses. Their actions do not match their words. The description matches [=fits] him closely. His story doesn't match the facts. Their stories didn't match (up). [=their stories didn't agree with each other] His story doesn't match (up) with the facts.
New information is matched against existing data in the computer.	to match sg against sg to compare something with something else in order to find things that are the same or similar összehasonlít vmit vmivel The fingerprints were matched against those stored in the computer.
He decided to follow up on his initial research and write a book.	to follow up on sg = to follow sg up to find out more about something, or take more action connected with it: follow upol The idea sounded interesting and I decided to follow it up. You should follow up your phone call with an email or a letter. The police take people’s statements and then follow them up.
A week after the story broke, the newspaper printed a follow-up.	follow-up (noun) something that continues or completes a process or activity, an action or a thing that continues something that has already started or comes after something similar that was done earlier follow-up As a follow-up to last week's show, tonight we'll show the other side of the story. The book is a follow-up to her excellent television series. Despite the success of his last album, there are as yet no plans for any follow-ups.
After you submit your job application, you should make a follow-up phone call.	follow-up (adjective) done in order to find out more or do more about something következő, rákövetkező He had a follow-up appointment a week after his surgery. a follow-up study on children and poverty
The company has been successful in cultivating a very professional image	to cultivate sg to work hard to develop a particular skill, attitude, or quality, to improve or develop (something) by careful attention, training, or study kultivál, kifejleszt, kialakít, keményen dolgozik, hogy fejlesszen vmit Try to cultivate a more relaxed and positive approach to life. He has carefully cultivated his image/reputation. She cultivated a taste for fine wines.
I’m not going to work late on Friday night! No way!	no way informal - use this when you are saying very strongly that you refuse to do something or when you are sure that something cannot possibly be true: nem, semmiképpen sem, lehetetlen ‘Do you think we can make the trip in two hours?’ ‘No way! It’ll take more like four.’ I don’t believe he stole the money -- no way! ‘Can I borrow your car?’ ‘No way!’ She’s 45? No way!
Well, well, well, I didn’t think I’d see you here.	well, well, (well) Used to express surprise or incredulity, either sincerely or sarcastically. nahát, nahát, (nahát) Well, well, I must say that I didn't expect to see results like that from the experiment! Well, well, well, what have we here? Up to your old tricks again, Daniel?
It is by no means certain that you’ll get your money back.	by no means = not by any means formal - in no way : not at all egyáltalán nem, semmiképpen It's by no means certain that he'll come. = It's not by any means certain that he'll come. It is by no means certain that the game will take place. It’s difficult, but by no means impossible.
She’s not a bad kid, by any means.	not by any means = by no means formal - in no way : not at all egyáltalán nem, semmiképpen It’s not clear by any means where the money is going to come from to fund this project. I was not happy about the arrangements by any means, but I agreed to do it.
Tony is always getting into trouble at school.	to get into trouble if someone gets into trouble, they do something that is illegal or against the rules, especially something not very serious, and get caught doing it: bajba keveredik Don’t copy my work or we’ll both get into trouble. He first got into trouble with the police at the age of 15. I didn’t say anything because I didn’t want to get into trouble.
He refuses to give up his quest to discover the truth.	quest for sg a long search for something, especially for some quality such as happiness keresés, kutatás vmi után his long quest for truth the quest for human happiness World leaders are now united in their quest for peace. The team's quest to win a championship finally came to an end.
‘They left without us.’ ‘You don't say!’ (= I'm not surprised)	You don't say! (informal, often ironic) used to express surprise Nem mondod! “She ran off with another man.” “You don't say!” “They lost again.” “You don't say. What's that, eight in a row?”
I don’t know how you put up with this noise day after day.	to put up with sg / sy [transitive phrasal verb] to accept an annoying situation or someone’s annoying behaviour, without trying to stop it or change it, to allow (someone or something unpleasant or annoying) to exist or happen : eltűr vmit / vkit The kind of treatment that you have to put up with as a new army recruit is pretty horrible. I can't put up with much more of this. She put up with his violent temper.
Women still face prejudice in the workplace.	prejudice an unreasonable dislike and distrust of people who are different from you in some way, especially because of their race, sex, religion etc – used to show disapproval: előítélet It takes a long time to overcome these kinds of prejudices. a cultural prejudice against fat people Asian pupils complained of racial prejudice at the school.
You walked home alone? Don't you know better (than that)?	to know better to be smart or sensible enough not to do something okosabb, értelmesebb annál, elég értelmes, hogy ne csináljon vmit There's no excuse for his behavior. He's old enough to know better. It’s just prejudice from educated people who should know better.
He knows better than to judge by appearances.	to know better than to do sg to be smart or sensible enough not to do something jobb / okosabb annál, minthogy She'll know better than to trust them again. [=she will not trust them again] Eva knew better than to interrupt one of Mark’s jokes.
I've had enough of driving the kids around.	to have had enough of sy / sg spoken - used to say you are tired or angry about a situation and want it to stop: elege volt vmiből When I got home I just sat down and cried. I’d had enough. I’ve just about had enough of your stupid remarks.
The plan’s success depends on how vigorously the UN will back it up with action.	to back up sy = to back sy up to give help or support to (someone or something) segít, támogat vkit, mögé áll I'll back you up if I think you're right. She backed her argument up with written evidence. = Written evidence backed her argument up. It's time to back up your words with deeds!
She said she felt sick and then threw up.	to throw up = to vomit informal - to have the food, liquid, etc., that is in your stomach come out through your mouth hány The patient was throwing up blood. Georgia was bent over the basin, throwing up.
I read about these women trying to have it all	to have it all to get everything one wants, in this case: I think he refers to women who want to have a career, a home, a husband and children. In the past, women would have stayed at home and looked after the house and children. Other women may have opted to forgo having a family. The father has read of those who want both. mindent elér, mindene megvan
The new model is (vastly/far) superior to the old one.	superior to sg 1 of high quality : high or higher in quality, great or greater in amount, number, or degree jó vagy jobb minőségű, jó vagy jobb vmihez képest superior products/results a superior wine = a wine of superior quality This new model offers superior performance. her superior strength/intelligence The small army was overwhelmed by superior numbers.
He thinks he's superior to everyone else.	superior to sy 2 better than other people felsőbbrendű, jobb vkihez képest He only helps us because it makes him feel superior. a superior manner/tone She had that superior tone of voice.
“I thought he wanted a divorce.” “No, it was the other way around.” [=she wanted a divorce]	the other way around used to say that the opposite situation is true fordítva Sometimes I cook and she does the dishes and sometimes it is the other way around. [=and sometimes she cooks and I do the dishes] No, the street was named after the college, not the other way around the college was not named after the street. I thought he was the boss and she was his secretary, but in fact it was the other way around.
There's no evidence whatsoever [=whatever] to support your theory.	whatsoever = whatever of any kind or amount at all akármit(t), bármi(t), egyáltalán She'll use any means whatsoever to achieve her goals. His remark had nothing whatsoever to do with you. “Is there any reason to wait?” “None whatsoever.”
I have no recollection of how I found my way there in the dark.	to have no recollection (of something) not remember nem emlékszik vmire He says he has no recollection of what happened. [=he doesn't remember what happened]
To the best of my recollection, she drives a Mercedes.	to (the best of) my recollection used when you are unsure if you remember correctly emlékezete szerint Noone, to my recollection, gave a second thought to the risks involved. To the best of my recollection [=from what I can remember], I only met them once.
He was uncertain as to which road to take.	as to formal - about vmiről, valamivel kapcsolatban I'm at a loss as to how to explain the error. [=I don't know how to explain the error] There is disagreement as to the causes of the fire. I remained uncertain as to the value of his suggestions. There's no decision as to when the work might start.
Was that you singing just now?	just now a moment ago most, az előbb, pár perce I saw him just now.
‘Is there a Mrs Lambert staying at the hotel?’ ‘Yes, she checked in a short while ago.’	a short while ago = a little while ago a short time ago, usually not more than a few hours nemrég, kevéssel ezelőtt
Tom got a letter from him just a little while ago.	a little while ago = a short while ago a short time ago, usually not more than a few hours nemrég, kevéssel ezelőtt
The red wolf survived until a short time ago in east Texas, but is now believed extinct in the wild.	a short time ago very recently nemrég, kevéssel ezelőtt So what is the government’s reaction to this news? A short time ago our political correspondent Jon Lander spoke to the Foreign Secretary, Robin Cook.
The company is venturing into the computer software industry.	to venture into sg to become involved in a new business activity: belevág, belekezd vmibe Banks are venturing into insurance. This is the first time the company has ventured into movie production.
business/commercial venture	venture a new activity, project, business, etc., that typically involves risk egy új, kockázatos vállalkozás, tevékenység, projekt joint venture (=when two companies do something together) a venture into the unknown a space venture a joint business venture
Okay, I get it. You only get paid if you sell at least ten copies.	to get it spoken - to finally understand something, especially after it has been explained to you several times: (végre) megért valamit ‘So the plant takes in carbon dioxide and gives out oxygen.’ ‘That’s it. You’ve got it.’ I've read this chapter three times, but I'm just not getting it. You might want to slow down your lectures, I don't think the rest of the class gets it.
I don’t know why you’re so pissed off -- I told you I might be late.	to be pissed off informal - an impolite expression meaning angry, especially about something that someone has done: mérges, fel van baszva Darren got really pissed when I told him that. Her superior attitude really pisses me off. John was so pissed off when he found out that someone else had been given the promotion instead of him.
I’m really pissed off about the schedule changes - it messes everything up.	to be pissed off about sg an impolite expression meaning angry, especially about something that someone has done: felbaszta vmi, mérges vmi miatt
Why are you pissed off at him?	to be pissed off at sy an impolite expression meaning angry, especially about something that someone has done: mérges vkire (csúnya) Judy’s pissed off at Carol.
I think I might start cycling to work in the morning—this traffic really pisses me off!	to piss sy off rude slang - To greatly anger or irritate someone. felbasz vkit I think I pissed off Janet with my comment earlier. The way she treats me really pisses me off.
Don't be too hard on the boy. [=don't judge or treat the boy too harshly]	to be too hard on sy to treat someone very strictly and sometimes unfairly: túl szigorú vkivel Sometimes I think you’re too hard on that boy. Don’t be too hard on her. She didn’t mean to break it. She is sometimes too hard on herself. There's no need to be so hard on yourself—you did the best you could.
The boys were showing off in front of the girls.	to show off disapproving: to try to impress someone with your abilities or possessions felvág, henceg, (büszkén) mutogat Stop trying to show off. He couldn’t resist showing off on the tennis court.
“When is she coming back?” “She's not coming back. She's gone for good.”	for good forever, someone leaves, comes back etc for good, they leave or come back permanently: örökre The injury may keep him out of football for good. I’d like to stay in Colorado for good.
Sorry, I can't go out, I'm grounded.	to ground sy to stop (a child) from leaving the house to spend time with friends as a form of punishment szobafogságra ítél vkit Her parents threatened to ground her for a week. [=her parents threatened to keep her from going out with her friends for a week] someone, especially a child, who is grounded is kept indoors as a punishment
Both twins were born healthy.	to be born having certain qualities or characteristics from the time of birth valamilyennek születik born blind/deaf The author Mark Twain was born Samuel Clemens. [=was named Samuel Clemens at birth] She's a born teacher/leader. [=she was born with the qualities that make someone a teacher/leader]
I’m telling you, Sheila, I’ve never seen anything like it in my life.	I am telling you = I can tell you used to emphasize that what you are saying is true, and should be believed: komolyan mondja I'm telling you, he's the best player in the American League. We’ve been waiting a long time for this, I can tell you.
That soup looks gross.	gross informal: very disgusting undorító She has a gross habit of chewing on the ends of her hair. Ooh, gross! I hate spinach!
They earned $50,000, gross.	gross net a gross sum of money is the total amount before any tax or costs have been taken away bruttó a gross profit of $5 million
the largest school district in the county	"county an area of a state or country that is larger than a city and has its own government to deal with local matters county, ""megye"" Fairfax County, Virginia"
I made use of my old contacts to get a job when I come back from Australia.	to make use of sg to use something you have available for a particular purpose: használ vmit (ami rendelkezésére áll vmilyen célból) To build the shelter, they had to make use of whatever bits of wood or plastic they could find. She made use of the money to pay for college. He tried to make good/better use of his spare time. [=he tried to use it in a better and more productive way]
Hold my hand. I don't want you to get lost.	to get lost not knowing where you are or how to get to where you want to go : unable to find your way elveszik I’ll give you a map so that you don’t get lost. Sorry we’re so late. We got lost.
Get lost you creep! Stop following me.	Get lost! said when you want someone to go away because they are annoying you: Takarodj! Kopj le!
I was wondering if I could borrow your car?	to wonder or to be wondering if / whether 1 used to ask someone politely to help you: udvariasan megkér vkit, hogy segítsen neked I wonder if you could tell me where the post office is? I wonder if you can help me.
We were wondering if you'd like to join us for dinner.	to be wondering if / whether 2 used to ask someone politely if they would like to do something: udvariasan megkérdez valakit, hogy szeretne-e valamit csinálni I was wondering if you’d like to come to dinner. I was wondering whether you'd like to come to a party.
The sheer number of questions overwhelmed her.	sheer 1 always used before a noun — used to emphasize the large amount, size, or degree of something puszta The sheer amount of work was staggering. The sheer force of the wind knocked me to the ground. The sheer size of the country makes communications difficult.
I only agreed out of sheer desperation.	sheer 2 always used before a noun : complete and total puszta, merő, tiszta I’ll never forget the look of sheer joy on her face. sheer hypocrisy sheer [=utter] nonsense sheer [=pure] luck/coincidence/joy
We need to concentrate on our target audience, namely women aged between 20 and 30.	namely used when giving exact information about something you have already mentioned mégpedig The disease can be prevented, namely by exercising, eating right, and not smoking. I have a question; namely, should we sell the property or not?
He started off by introducing himself.	to start off to start or cause (something) to start in a specified way kezd, nyit (beszélgetést) She started off (her run) at a slow jog. The performance started off badly.
I started off my speech with a joke.	to start off sg with sg to start or cause (something) to start in a specified way kezd vmit vmivel, megnyit vmit vmivel (beszélgetést) We started off the meal with shrimp cocktails. The team started the season off with a 10-game winning streak. The theater company started off their new season with a Shakespeare play.
Have you heard of John Key? [i.e. do you know who John Key is?] Have you heard about John Key? [i.e. have you heard the news involving John Key?]	to hear of vs. to hear about To hear of something is to become aware of it, whereas to hear about something is to be informed about it, for example, to receive news about it: ismer valamit vs hall vmiről I heard of a new restaurant in the Gaslamp Quarter. [i.e. I have learned that there is a new restaurant.] I heard about a new restaurant in the Gaslamp Quarter. [i.e. somebody told me about a new restaurant (and she wouldn't shut up about it for three trolley stops).]
You'd better leave now or you might not get there on time.	had better = better If you had better do something, you should do it. In informal speech, better by itself is often used in this way without had. jobb lenne ha, jobban teszi ha Hadn't you better leave now if you want to get there on time? You'd better not do that or you'll get in trouble. [=you'll get in trouble if you do that] I told him he'd better leave at once. “Do you want to drive?” “I better not.” I told him he better leave at once.
How do native English speakers respond to “Thank you”? No problem or You're welcome	"How do native English speakers respond to “Thank you”? I use ""Not at all,"" ""Don't mention it,"" and ""No problem"" when the activity I'm being thanked for was really no big deal. I use ""My pleasure"" when emphasizing that I'm happy to be of assistance (often in a customer service context), and ""You're welcome"" when the action prompting the thanks was a little bit of a bother. In essence I use different phrases to indicate how ""thanks-worthy"" the activity was. If someone thanks me for something I always do (for instance I always cook dinner in our house) then I would say ""No problem"" or ""My pleasure"" depending on context. If I did a chore that was someone else's responsibility, I would say ""You're welcome"" even if I was happy to have done it, because it took an extra effort on my part, not because it was a ""bother."" nincs mit"
This raises the question of government funding.	to raise a/the question bring it to people’s attention felvet egy/a kérdést This study raises several important questions. Betty raised the important question of who will be in charge.
Do You Know Where All of Your Data Resides	to reside to exist or be present van, létezik The article raises some significant points, such as what systems do you have in place to account for where data is residing. Why it’s important to know where your data resides. The importance of this decision resides in the fact that it relates to people across the country.
I think he sort of likes me.	sort of informal - to some small degree : slightly or somewhat valamennyire, kicsit, egy kis mértékben I feel sort of foolish. You look sort of like my cousin. “Did you enjoy the movie?” “Sort of.” The walls were (painted) sort of blue. = The walls were (painted in) sort of a blue color.
Please find the attached file. = Please find the file attached.	Please find the attached file. = Please find the file attached. Please find the attached file. = Please find the file attached. Csatolva.
If students to copy us on an email, that's fine.	to copy sy on an email = to cc sy on an email = to put sy on copy of your email to send someone a copy of an email message you are sending to someone else rátesz vkit egy emailre Now, this isn’t the first time I’ve heard about the CC trick, and I’ve been asked if I think it’s OK to just copy me on an email. Don't worry about James' script or the fact he didn't copy you on an email.
"You ask a co-worker to ""cc"" you on an email."	to cc sy on an email = to copy sy on an email = to put sy on copy of your email to send someone a copy of an email message you are sending to someone else cc-z vkit az emailre Let me CC you on an email to him. I'd been cc'd by accident. Please cc the letter to me. He cc'd the entire staff.
Can you put me on copy of your mail?	to put sy on copy of your email = to copy sy on an email = to cc sy on an email to send someone a copy of an email message you are sending to someone else rátesz vkit egy emailre
I don't know what actually [=really] happened.	actually 1 — used to refer to what is true or real igazából After all these months, it's hard to believe that we're actually [=really, truly] finished. What time are you actually leaving? Labor costs have actually fallen. ‘Disappointed?’ ‘No, actually I’m rather glad.’
We'd actually planned to leave early, but we were delayed.	actually 2 — used to stress that a statement is true especially when it differs in some way from what might have been thought or expected igazából I wasn't worried about being late. Actually, I didn't want to go at all. I didn't think I'd like the movie, but it was actually pretty good. I was shocked to learn he could actually fly a plane. I could hardly believe it when she actually apologized to me. “I like your new glasses.” “Thanks, but actually I've had them for almost a year.”
No, I’m not offended at all. In fact, I’m glad you asked the question.	in fact to tell someone what the real situation is, when they think it is something different. Actually is more informal and is used more in conversation than in fact. Actually is also used more in questions than in fact. Actually is often used at the beginning of a sentence that answers a question, but in fact is not. igazából He looks younger, but he is in (actual) fact almost 60 years old. They know each other; in fact, they're close friends. = They know each other; they're close friends, in fact. He said it would be cheap but in fact it cost over £200.
The applicant was completely/totally lacking in experience.	to be lacking in sg not having any or enough of something that is needed or wanted hiányzik, nincs vmiből vagy nincs elég vmiből Evidence that supports his claims is lacking. Her performance was somehow lacking. This wine is lacking in any real flavor. [=this wine does not have any real flavor] The case was found (to be) lacking in merit.
His book lacks any coherent structure.	to lack sg to not have (something) or to not have enough of (something) hiányzik vmi vagy nincs elég vmiből They lack a good strategy for winning the election. This painting lacks any artistic value. She has never been accused of lacking confidence. lack money Many of these people lack the basic necessities of life.
It was a vacation of sorts. [=it was like a vacation in some ways, although it wasn't really a vacation]	of sorts in some ways but not entirely or exactly vagy valami olyasmi, vagy valami hasonló He's a poet of sorts. [=he writes some poetry but he is not really a poet] I had a conversation of sorts with a very drunk man at the bus stop.
Now, let’s move on to the question of payment.	now used to introduce an important idea or to show a change in subject (na) most Now, what did you say your name was? Now, let’s see, oh yes – they wanted to know what time you’ll be back on Friday. Now if I’d been in charge there’s no way I’d have let them use the van.
There's more to come.	There's more to come. Da kommt noch etwas, Das ist noch nicht alles, Da kommt noch mehr ez még nem minden
Any thoughts on how we should spend the money?	thoughts [plural] a person’s ideas or opinions about something vélemény What are your thoughts, Michael? I'd like to hear your thoughts on the subject.
She ignored my suggestion—not that I care. [=I do not care that she ignored my suggestion]	not that used to say that something that may seem true is not true nem mintha Not that it matters much [=it does not matter much], but is the artist a man or a woman? Some people lie to get out of jury duty. Not that I ever would, of course. [=I would never lie to get out of jury duty Sarah has a new boyfriend – not that I care (=I do not care). Janice had lost some weight, not that it mattered (=it did not matter).
He is about to leave. [=he will be leaving very soon]	to be about to do sg very close to doing something — followed by to + verb vmit tenni készül, éppen tenni készül vmit We're about to join our friends for dinner. Their daughter is about to graduate from college. I'm not about to quit. [=I am not going to quit; I will not quit]
He's far from perfect, but she loves him anyway.	anyway 1: despite something that has been stated before ennek ellenére I didn't expect her to say “yes,” but I asked her anyway. It makes no difference what we say. She's going to do what she wants anyway. The road got worse, but they kept going anyway.
What exactly does this mean anyway?	anyway 2 — used to give added force to a question különben is How do they do it anyway? I can't believe he acted so rudely. Who does he think he is anyway?
‘We're meeting Jake for lunch and we can go on the yacht in the afternoon.’ ‘Cool!’	cool people say Cool! or That’s cool to show that they approve of something or agree to a suggestion oké ‘Can you come at 10.30 tomorrow?’ ‘That's cool.’ I was surprised that she got the job, but I'm cool with it (= it's not a problem for me). I'm sorry I'm late.” “It's/That's cool [=okay, all right]—don't worry about it.” “Is getting together Friday cool with you?” “Yeah, I'm cool with that.”
government programs	program (US) = programme (UK) a plan of things that are done in order to achieve a specific result program a program of regular dental checkups a workout program
Art allows us to express things that we would not be able to express otherwise.	otherwise 1: in a different way or manner másképpen, más módon All of the books had been burned or otherwise destroyed. The women talked in the living room while the men were otherwise occupied. All shows begin at 7:00 unless otherwise noted. [=unless there is a note indicating that a show begins at a different time]
Thank you for reminding me; I might have missed the meeting otherwise. [=if you did not remind me]	otherwise 2: if something did not happen, was not true, etc. különben Something must be wrong; otherwise, he would have called. The new computer program allows us to do in seconds what would otherwise [=without the computer program] take us days to accomplish. The test helps identify problems that might otherwise go unnoticed/undetected.
The report specifically names two companies that were involved.	specifically 1: in a definite and exact way konkrétan, kifejezetten I specifically told her not to bother you. Knead the bread dough for several minutes, or, more specifically, until it forms a smooth ball.
The show is aimed specifically at a female audience.	specifically 2 — used to indicate the exact purpose or use of something kifejezetten, speciálisan The new rules apply specifically to situations like this. furniture designed specifically for outdoor use
I’m quite happy in my job but that’s not to say I’m going to do it for the rest of my life.	That's not to say (that) used to make sure the person you are talking to does not think something that is not true: nem azt jelenti(, hogy) That's not to say it's a bad movie (= it is good but it is not without faults). So far, no one’s been sacked, but that’s not to say it won’t happen.
She was uncertain whether to stay or leave.	whether to do something used when talking about a choice you have to make or about something that is not certain: hogy csináljon-e vmit I didn’t know whether to believe him or not. He seemed undecided whether to go or stay.
From what I've heard the company's in deep trouble.	from what I hear/from what I’ve heard used for giving information based on what people have told you rather than on what you know is true ahogy én hallom / hallottam She’s not going to be around much longer, from what I hear.
The economy is struggling. That [being] said, house prices rose slightly last month.	that being said = that said despite what I just said ennek ellenére Much of the book was very dull. That said, I have to admit that the ending was extremely clever.
Their work has been fairly good. Having said that, I still think there's a lot of room for improvement.	having said that despite what I just said ennek ellenére He forgets most things, but having said that, he always remembers my birthday. I know that I should not be eating dessert instead of dinner. Having said that, I am going to order dessert.
With that said, he got up and left the meeting.	"with that said I normally encounter this phrase as something that follows an obligatory statement and precedes what you really want to say. Or, it can be used as a ""disclaimer"" for what is to come ezzel, ezennel First, I need to thank the Academy. With that said, I'd like to talk a bit about my life and how I got to this point. With that said, we’ve compiled a quick list of different German phrases that will let you eloquently express and receive gratitude!"
The country has been in turmoil for the past 10 years.	turmoil a state of confusion, excitement, or anxiety zavargás, kavarodás, nyugtalanság the prospect of another week of political turmoil a period of political/economic turmoil emotional turmoil
Interestingly enough, Pearson made no attempt to deny the rumour.	interestingly enough used to introduce a fact that you think is interesting érdekes módon Interestingly (enough), he never actually said that he was innocent. Interestingly enough, the building industry is among the growth drivers for the first time.
He endured five years as a prisoner of war.	to endure sg [transitive] to be in a difficult or painful situation for a long time without complaining: elvisel, kibír It seemed impossible that anyone could endure such pain. He can’t endure being apart from me. The refugees have endured [=suffered] more hardship than most people can imagine. I cannot endure [=(more commonly) stand] the sound of her voice.
Let me just ask you something real quick. = Let me just ask you something really quickly.	real chiefly US, informal - very or really tényleg, nagyon We had a real good time. The water is real warm. He is real fast.
We’ll work out a business plan, see what the bank says, and then take it from there.	(we) take it from there if somebody says that they/we will take it from here/there, they mean that they/we will do something and then decide what to do next: (majd) onnan folytatjuk Let's just see how much the repairs will cost and take it from there. We've got to see what the studio thinks of your changes to the script, and then we can take it from there.
Ads convey the message that thin is beautiful.	to convey to communicate or express something, with or without using words: kifejez, közvetít All this information can be conveyed in a simple diagram. He was sent to convey a message to the UN Secretary General. I want to convey to children that reading is one of life’s greatest treats. The painting conveys [=expresses] a sense/feeling of motion.
It is important that we get this message across to voters.	to get (sg) across to be communicated or understood; to succeed in communicating something átmegy (vki vmit megért), (átvisz vmit) I hope my point has finally gotten across to you. [=I hope you finally understand what I am trying to say] It took him ages to get his point across. We must get across the simple fact that drugs are dangerous. The message isn’t getting across.
He argues that poverty is closely tied to poor health. [=that poverty and poor health are closely related/connected]	to be tied to sg to connect (someone or something) to another person or thing — usually used as (be) tied to kapcsolódik, össze van kötve, kapcsolatban van The rise in crime has been tied [=linked] to drug dealing. The rate of production is tied to consumer demand. [=the rate of production depends on consumer demand] The prices of Web ads are tied to the number of visitors the sites have.
My name is Benjamin, or Ben for short.	for short in a shorter form : as an abbreviation röviden Hi, my name’s Moses -- Mo for short. He’s actually called Jeremy, but everyone who knows him calls him Jem for short.
We need some financial advice – that’s where Kate comes in.	to come in 3 to be involved in a plan, deal etc: bejön You had the chance to come in on the deal. We're going to need someone to help with the cooking, and that's where you come in. [=your job will be to help us with the cooking]
The cutover left users with no interruption in services during the transition.	cutover IT - a change from old computer systems, equipment, etc. to new ones, a transitional period in a computer system changeover during which old and new systems work concurrently átállás cutover day
Computer downtime is an overarching problem in all departments.	overarching formal - including or influencing every part of something mindent felölelő, mindenre kiterjedő the book's overarching theme The crisis gave an overarching justification to the government’s policy
Be patient and the situation may resolve itself.	to resolve itself if a complicated problem resolves itself, it either stops being a problem or is solved without you having to do anything megoldódik Fortunately, our employee problem resolved itself when two workers moved house and resigned voluntarily. If we are patient the whole problem will resolve itself in due course.
To make the appetizer, you should alternate layers of tomatoes and cheese. [=you should place a layer of tomatoes, then a layer of cheese, then a layer of tomatoes, etc.]	to alternate to place or do (different things) so that one follows the other in a repeated series váltogat, váltakozik The necklace is made by alternating glass beads with shells. The poem/poet alternates fear and hope with each other. = The poem/poet alternates fear with hope. Light woods alternate with dark woods. The poem alternates between fear and hope.
Candidates must go through a process of selection.	to go through sg to experience a particular process: végigmegy vmin Caterpillars go through several stages of growth. Certain formalities have to be gone through before you can emigrate.
You risk incurring bank charges if you exceed your overdraft limit.	to incur incur something if you incur costs, you have to pay them, if you incur a cost, debt, or a fine, you have to pay money because of something you have done vmi felmerül (költség) If the council loses the appeal, it will incur all the legal costs. the heavy losses incurred by airlines since September 11th
He first exhibited an interest in music when he was very young.	to exhibit somewhat formal : to show or reveal (something), formal - to clearly show a particular quality, emotion, or ability SYN display mutat vmit The patient exhibited signs of the disease. She exhibited no fear. a patient who is exhibiting classic symptoms of mental illness
At worst, you'll have to pay a fine, but you won't lose your license.	at worst used to refer to a result, condition, etc., that is the worst one possible a legrosszabb esetben (is) He hoped that at worst he would suffer only a minor loss in the investment. At best the government is incompetent, and at worst, it is totally corrupt.
She took a file from her desk drawer.	drawer part of a piece of furniture, such as a desk, that you pull out and push in and use to keep things in fiókos szekrény The scissors are in the kitchen drawer (=drawer in a piece of kitchen furniture). top/bottom/right-hand/left-hand drawer He opened the top drawer of his desk, and took out a brown envelope.
Line A intersects line B. = Line B is intersected by line A. = Line A and line B intersect each other	to intersect sg to divide (something) by passing through or across it keresztez vmit A dry stream bed intersects the trail in several places.
The accident occurred at a busy intersection.	intersection (AmE) = junction (BrE) a place where two or more roads, lines, etc. meet or cross each other kereszteződés Traffic lights have been placed at all major intersections. It is a busy intersection, almost invariably clogged with traffic. The accident occurred at the intersection of Mulholland Drive with Canyonback Road.
He was never really able to acclimate to the hot weather. [=to get used to the hot weather]	to acclimate (to sg) US: to adjust or adapt to a new climate, place, or situation — usually + to akklimatizálódik (vmihez) The mountain climbers spent a few days acclimating [=becoming adjusted] to the high altitude. I acclimated myself to the hot weather. You might need to acclimate your plants to bright sunlight gradually. We took a few days to get acclimated to our new teacher.
Go ahead and eat before everything gets cold.	to go ahead and do sg to start to do something, especially after planning it or asking permission to do it megy és csinál vmit I went ahead and arranged the trip anyway. I'll go ahead and tell them you're on the way.
They’ve decided to go ahead with plans to build 50 new houses on the site.	to go ahead with sg to start to do something, especially after planning it or asking permission to do it elkezd, csinál vmit, különösen tervezés vagy engedély kérése után Despite the bad weather, they decided to go ahead with the party. ‘May I start now?’ ‘Yes, go ahead.’ The government intends to go ahead with its tax cutting plans
I'm dropping off the call.	"to drop off If you are leaving the call, you'd normally say: ""I'm dropping off the call."" elhagyja (a callt) Hey I have to drop off this call to run to another meeting. I'm going to drop off the call now."
If you'd like to discuss the opportunities further, I'm happy to jump on a call early next week.	"to jump on a call ""I'll jump on the call"" -- means you are joining the conference call, join a conversation on the phone csatlakozik egy callhoz Hey Scott, I’d love to (insert anything that would take you away from what you are doing) and jump on a call. Are you free for 30 minutes?”"
The project was clearly a failure. [=the project was a clear failure]	clearly = obviously in a way that is certain : without doubt nyilvánvalóan, nyilván, természetesen The problem is very clearly getting worse. Clearly, a new approach is needed. = A new approach is clearly needed. [=it is clear that a new approach is needed] “A new approach is needed.” “Clearly.” “The current method isn't working.” “Clearly not.”
There were no legal impediments to the deal.	impediment to sg formal - a situation or event that makes it difficult or impossible for someone or something to succeed or make progress gát, akadály vmihez War is one of the greatest impediments to human progress. The level of inflation is a serious impediment to economic recovery. Their boycott of the talks constitutes a serious impediment to peace negotiations.
I don’t want to go into details now.	to go into detail = to go into details to include a lot of details when you are describing or explaining something belemegy a részletekbe Without going into detail, I can tell you that we have had a very successful year. Be brief. If you go into too much detail people will get bored. Chapter 1 is a brief outline of the process, then the next chapter goes into all the technicaldetails. McDougal was reluctant to go into detail (=give a lot of details) about the new deal.
I picked up a few French phrases on my trip to Paris.	to pick up to learn something by watching or listening to other people felszed, tanul He seems to pick foreign languages up very easily. She uses a style of singing she picked up from listening to jazz music. He's been picking up some bad habits from his friends.
This instrument is used for measuring wind velocity.	velocity the speed at which something moves in a particular direction - use this especially in technical contexts: sebesség an experiment to try to predict the velocity of a moving object the velocity of light The speedboat reached a velocity of 120 mph.
Once the scores have been totaled up, we will announce the winner.	to total up sg to find the total number or total amount of something by adding: összeszámol, összead At the end of the game, total up everyone’s score to see who has won. He totaled up the bill.
Every single ad in the campaign has been a gem.	gem of sg something that is very special or beautiful gyöngyszem, ékkő, dísze vminek The Fortune is a tiny gem of a theatre. The house is a gem of colonial architecture. He pitched a gem of a game. little gems of advice
We’re making a few cosmetic changes to the house before we sell it.	cosmetic dealing with the outside appearance rather than the important part of something szépítő, kozmetikai Many MPs denounced the resolution as a cosmetic exercise (=something which will look good, but have no real effect). The house just needs some paint and a few other cosmetic [=decorative] changes.
Leadership is an intangible asset to a company.	intangible not made of physical substance : not able to be touched : not tangible nem megfogható, immateriális an intangible benefit The island has an intangible quality of holiness.
So far we have not had to borrow any money.	so far until now eddig They’re delighted with the replies they’ve received from the public thus far. He has written only two books so far.
“How's the work on your house going?” “There's a lot more to do, but so far, so good.”	"so far, so good spoken - used to say that things have been happening successfully until now: eddig jó We’ve reached the semi-finals. So far so good. ""How’s your new job?"" ""So far, so good."""
Thus far the results have been disappointing.	thus far until now - Thus is formal or literary. In everyday English, people usually say so: eddig Her political career thus far had remained unblemished. We haven't had any problems thus far.
They asked me about my plans for the future and stuff.	... and stuff spoken informal - used to say that there are other things similar to what you have just mentioned, but you are not going to say what they are meg ilyesmi, meg ilyesmit There’s some very good music there, CD systems and stuff, and laser disks. The store sells TVs and stereos and stuff (like that).
He has a lot on his mind, what with his health problems and everything.	and everything spoken - and a lot of other similar things: meg hasonló, meg hasonlók Tina’s worried about her work and everything. I like being out in the forest with all the birds and trees and everything.
Once I get him a job, he’ll be fine.	once from the time when something happens amint, amikor, ha Once in bed, the children usually stay there. Things got better once he found a job. = Once he found a job, things got better. Once she spoke, I recognized her.
Mark had a job lined up when he left college.	to line sy / sg up to arrange for something to happen or for someone to be available for an event: úgy alakít vmit, hogy elérhető legyen vmire, kilátásba állít / van We’ve lined up some excellent speakers for tonight. He’s already got a new job lined up. I've got a lot lined up this week (= I'm very busy). She's lined up a live band for the party.
Correct me if I’m wrong, but haven’t we already discussed that?	correct me if I’m wrong spoken - used when you are not sure that what you are going to say is true or not: javíts ki, ha nem így van Correct me if I’m wrong, but didn’t you say you’d never met him before? Correct me if I'm wrong, but I think you owe me another dollar. [=do you owe me another dollar?]
He is well versed in French cooking. [=he knows a lot about French cooking]	to be well versed in sg knowing a lot about something jártas vmiben, sokat tud vmiről The new prime minister is well versed in economic policy. Victor Amadeus was reputed to be well versed in poisons and their antidotes.
His angry comments have exacerbated tensions in the negotiation process.	to exacerbate to make a bad situation worse súlyosbít The recession has exacerbated this problem. I don’t want to exacerbate the situation. The proposed factory shutdown would only exacerbate our unemployment problems.
They can do only so much to represent the full complexity of the global climate.	to do so much used to say that there is only a limited quantity of something: csak egy bizonyos mennyiségű dolgot, csak ennyit There is only so much you can do to protect yourself There is only so much you can remember There's only so much a person can take
So far, the benefits of falling crude oil prices haven't trickled down to consumers.	to trickle down to spread from the upper levels of a society, organization, etc., to the lower levels — used especially to describe the movement of money through an economic system lecsorog, legyűrűzik vkihez They believe that the benefits of the tax cut for corporations should eventually trickle down to the average consumer. Wealth is failing to trickle down through society.
Five of us squeezed into the back seat.	to squeeze to try to make something fit into a space that is too small, or to try to get into such a space beszorít, bepréselődik He had squeezed through a gap in the fence. We could probably squeeze in a few more people. The cat squeezed through the opening.
The painkillers kicked in and he became sleepy.	to kick in informal - to start or to begin to have an effect elkezd hatni The storm is expected to kick in shortly after sunrise. Once the heat kicks in, it will be a lot more comfortable in here. waiting for the new law to kick in
I’m going to kick off today’s meeting with a few remarks about the budget.	to kick off 2 informal - if you kick off a discussion, meeting, event etc, you start it: elkezd, kezd, elkezdődik, kezdődik If the meeting kicks off on time, we should be finished by 12 o'clock. Our annual conference kicked off with a speech from the President. The conference kicked off with a swingeing attack on local government reform by Arthur Midwinter, professor of politics at Strathclyde University.
It’s wise to have an extra video player as a fallback.	fallback = backup something that can be used or done if a supply, method etc fails backup Do you have a fallback option? What's our fallback if they don't come up with the money? We need a fallback position if they won't do the job.
“We've gotta go.” [=we have got to go]	gotta a short form of ‘have got to’, ‘has got to’, ‘have got a’, or ‘has got a’, which most people think is incorrect, The pronunciation represented by gotta is common in informal speech. The written form should be avoided except when you are trying to represent or record such speech. gotta We gotta go now. “I gotta [=have got to] get a new pair of shoes.”
The cost-cutting measures include streamlining administrative procedures in the company.	to streamline to make (something) simpler, more effective, or more productive optimalizál, racionalizál The business is looking for ways to streamline production/operations. The production process is to be streamlined. Leading organizations use software to streamline their workflow.
It is one of more interesting stories (.... in the newspapers today)	"one of more + plural 1a. It is one of more interesting stories (.... in the newspapers today). I found an interesting story in a newspaper. There are more (additional, a further number of) interesting stories in the papers. They may not be ""more interesting"" than this story, but they are interesting stories, and there are more of them. 2a. That is one of more expensive retaurants (... in the town.) This is an expensive restaurant. There are further (an additional number of) expensive restaurants around too. They may not be ""more expensive"" than this restaurant, but they are also expensive, and there are more of them. egyike az érdekesebb/drágább/stb. vmiknek That is one of more expensive retaurants (... in the town.)"
My horse had been tethered to a post, but somehow it escaped.	to tether sg to sg to tie an animal such as a dog or horse to something, using a rope, so that it can move around but cannot walk away hozzáköt vmit (egy állatot) vmihez The farmer tethered a goat in the field and left it there for the day. He tethered his horse to a tree. He checked that the animals were safely tethered.
I must remember to listen in to the news.	to listen in to/on sg to listen to a broadcast on the radio belehallgat vmibe I wish Dad would stop listening in on my phone conversations. You shouldn't listen in on other people's conversations.
She’s quite a bit shorter than I remembered.	quite a bit a fairly large amount or to a fairly large degree: jócskán, elég sokkal, elég sokat Jim has improved quite a bit since he came home from the hospital. He knows quite a bit about painting.
one-way traffic	one-way a one-way street is one in which vehicles are only allowed to travel in one direction egyirányú the town’s one-way system a one-way street/valve This street is just one-way.
I’m turning the project over to you.	to turn sg over to sy to give the control or responsibility of (someone or something) to (someone) átad vkinek vmit I am turning the job over to you. [=I am giving you the job] He turned the property over to his niece. The case has been turned over to the district attorney. The suspect was turned over to the police on Wednesday.
the cost of development of a bespoke system	(BrE) bespoke = (AmE) custom-made (of a product) made specially, according to the needs of an individual customer testre szabott a bespoke suit
The cruise fell short of our expectations. [=the cruise was not as good as we expected it to be]	to fall short of sg to fail to be as good or successful as expected or hoped for alatta marad vminek, nem üti meg a mértéket, nem sikerül olyan jónak vagy sikeresnek lennie, ahogy várta vagy remélte In comparison to her previous novel, this one falls short. [=this one is not as good] Her current book falls short of her previous novel.
The tourist industry yielded an estimated $2.25 billion for the state last year.	to yield 1 to produce (a profit, an amount of money, etc.) hoz, jövedelmez The tax is expected to yield millions. The bond yields seven percent annually.
Our research has only recently begun to yield important results.	to yield 2 to produce (something) as a result of time, effort, or work eredményez New methods have yielded promising results in the field. The studies yielded clear evidence.
A new PA system should be in place in the next three to six months.	to be in place if equipment, a system, a rule, or a plan is in place, it is ready to start being used: jelen van When everything is in place, the building work begins, even if it means running two massive projects at the same time. The uncertain economy is forcing us to accelerate cost-cutting plans that are already in place.
The plan will be put in place over the course of several months.	to put in place established or implemented létrehoz, implementál The curfew was put in place [=was established] by the town's mayor. More security measures put in place at Shanghai's 2 airports over terrorism fears
You're too focused on this project. You need to take a step back and consider the bigger picture of the whole company.	to take a step back To withdraw or remove oneself from something, often in order to consider it from a broader or more objective perspective. visszalép, eltávolodik I think everyone needs to take a step back from this issue for a moment and think about their motivations a bit more critically.
Vary your presentation, using handouts and overheads as appropriate.	as appropriate in the way that is relevant or suitable megfelelően Please debit my Mastercard/Visa/American Express card (delete as appropriate) (= cross out the options that do not apply). Give the distances in miles or kilometers as appropriate - use the system of measurement that is suitable or sensible.
If you start pivoting, you're not being honest with people (Donald Trump).	to pivot ​[intransitive] (business) to change direction; to change the way in which something is done, To make a dramatic change in policy, position, or strategy irányt vált, stratégiát vált The company is pivoting towards mobile and away from social media. We are pivoting towards delivering all of our software as a service.
Don't clutter the page with too many diagrams.	to clutter to put too many facts, pictures etc in something so that it becomes hard to understand telezsúfol the everyday tasks that clutter our lives I don't want all these files cluttering up my desk.
Aside from [=apart from, except for] a few pieces of bread, the food is gone.	aside from sg chiefly US - 1 not including (something) : with the exception of (something) valamin kívül, valami kivételével The movie has been praised by most people, aside from a few critics who have called its happy ending trite and predictable. Aside from Durang’s performance, the actors are ordinary.
Aside from being well written, the book is also beautifully illustrated.	aside from sg chiefly US - 2 in addition to (something) : besides vmi mellett In the poetry competition, aside from Hass, are four other entrants. He’d eaten half a loaf of bread, and that was aside from the sandwich he’d had earlier.
It’s difficult for new lawyers to get started in private practice.	to get started to begin doing or working on something kezd, elkezd, elindul You (had) better get started if you want to finish on time. newlyweds who are just getting started [=who are just starting their lives together]
I will go into that a little bit later in more detail.	to go into that a little bit later to explain, describe, or examine something in detail: kicsit később belemegy We will go into that a little bit later.
The idea [=goal, aim] is to get people to attend.	the idea the central meaning or purpose of something elképzelés, lényeg, cél, ok The whole idea [=point, object] of the game is to keep from getting caught. I just don't get/understand the idea behind [=the reason for] this change in the rules.
She went overboard with the decorations.	to go overboard with/on/in sg informal - to do something in a way that is excessive or extreme : to do too much of something túlzásba visz vmit Don't go overboard on/with the spices. [=do not add too many spices] I hope politicians will not go overboard in trying to control the press.
Let's take it offline!	Let's take it offline! I've heard this used in conference calls, where it actually has nearly the literal meaning. Rather than tie up everyone on the phone, a smaller group can discuss the topic at another time. beszéljük meg utána egy másik időpontban Bob, let’s take this discussion offline since it really is a separate topic and has nothing to do with the meeting we are in right now.
A recent government paper on education contains some controversial new ideas.	controversial something that is controversial causes a lot of disagreement and angry argument, especially in the newspaper, on television etc: vitatott, vitás Rossellini’s controversial film, ‘The Miracle’ The decision to use the bomb remains the most controversial question of the Second World War.
The senator's bill lengthens the notice period before a layoff to 90 days.	notice period The notice period is the time period between the receipt of the letter of dismissal and the end of the last working day. felmondási idő Legal eviction proceedings cannot begin until after the 60-day legal notice period is over.
“That's an interesting idea,” he interjected, “but I don't think you've considered all of the details.”	to interject formal - : to interrupt what someone else is saying with (a comment, remark, etc.) közbeszól, közbevág She listened to us, interjecting remarks every so often. If I may interject, I have things I'd like to add.
Okay, I get the idea: you two want to be alone.	to get the idea to understand something, often something that is not expressed directly ért Don’t worry if you don’t understand it right now – you’ll get the idea (=begin to understand or be able to do something) I got the idea that he didn’t want to answer the question.
Let's start now, shall we?	"let's ... , shall we ""let's ... , okay?"" in a formal way. In American English, however, the shall we tag is not very common, although it has a certain formal charm. In addition to using okay? we can make an alternative kind of first person plural imperative in other ways, as in these sentence types used for requests or suggestions: Why don't we stop at the next rest area? Could we stop at the next rest area? I'd like to stop at the next rest area. How about stopping at the next rest area? Wanna stop at the next rest area? oké Let's go, shall we?"
In the summer, the town is overrun with/by tourists. [=is filled with tourists]	to be overrun by/with something [transitive usually passive] if unwanted things or people overrun a place, they spread over it in great numbers elárasztja vmi, elözönli vmi a tiny island overrun by tourists The city was being overrun by enemy troops. Rats overran the ship. The house was overrun with mice
the schedule for w/c 19 November	w/c = (BrE) week commencing the week that begins on the date mentioned a hét vmitől kezdődően Interviews will take place in w/c 10 May.
You can find all kinds of information on the Internet.	on the Internet a system that connects computers throughout the world az interneten
I went on the Internet to find some information for my assignment.	to go on the Internet a system that connects computers throughout the world felmegy az internetre
By providing this information on the intranet, staff have the opportunity to keep up-to-date with the strategic focus of the organization.	on the intranet a computer network used for exchanging or seeing information within a company az intraneten Our guest blogger and longtime customer Peter Baron explains the top six reasons to share your staff photos on the intranet.
These women were strong, resourceful and courageous.	resourceful good at finding ways of dealing with practical problems: leleményes, találékony a resourceful leader
to click sg vs to click on sg	"to click sg vs to click on sg Generally speaking, click on is used for something virtual. You wouldn't say click on with your first example. Click on is used when you want to instruct someone to use a physical object (i.e. the mouse) to select a virtual object. However, you can use click with virtual objects as well, it's just not as precise. ""Click the link"" would be OK, you are assuming that it is understood the mouse will be used to click the link, and are thus extending the property of the mouse (i.e. clicking behavior) to the link. These aren't hard and fast rules however, at least to my knowledge. valamire klikkel"
Most importantly, you must keep a record of everything you do.	most importantly used for saying that a fact you are talking about is important: ami a legfontosabb I go to my exercise class for the fun and social side of it and, most importantly I suppose, for my health. You must wear your seat belt because it's the law, but most importantly because it could save your life.
The instructions don't make any sense (at all). = The instructions make no sense (at all). = The instructions make little sense.	to make sense 1: to have a clear meaning : to be easy to understand érthető We read the recommendations and thought they made (perfect) sense. You're not making much sense (to me). [=I can't understand what you're saying]
It makes sense to leave early to avoid traffic.	to make sense 2: to be reasonable ésszerű It makes little/no sense to continue. [=there is little/no point in continuing] Why would he do such an awful thing? It makes no sense (to me).
I can’t leave just yet. I’ve still got a couple of letters to write.	not just yet not now, but probably soon, right now — used in negative constructions to say that something is not done yet or true yet but will be soon most még nem I don't have the table finished just yet. “Are you ready to leave?” “Not just yet.”
I want to thank each and every person who has contributed to this project.	each and every used as a more forceful way of saying each minden egyes These are issues that affect each and every one of us. Firemen face dangerous situations each and every day.
trial balance	trial balance A trial balance is a bookkeeping worksheet in which the balance of all ledgers are compiled into debit and credit account column totals that are equal. főkönyvi kivonat
Let me know if you have any questions or comments.	Let me know if you have any questions or comments. Asking for feedback on a meeting summary szólj, ha van kérdésed van észrevételed
She jumped ship when the competition offered her a better job.	to jump ship to leave an organization that you are working for, especially in order to join another: munkahelyet vált The best employees jumped ship at the first opportunity.
I didn't know what I was getting myself into.	I didn't know what I was getting myself into I didn't fully appreciate the consequences of my involvement (in the situation). In the topic sentence, the speaker knows he is in some difficulties, but doesn't yet fully understand what they might amount to in the long run, and asks himself what they might be nem tudtam, hogy mibe kezdek bele
Months of uncertainty came to an end when the final votes were counted.	to come to an end to finally end - use this about a period of time, a situation, or an activity that has continued for a long time: végül befejeződik It was already September, and our stay in Zurich was coming to an end. The work has finally come to an end. [=has finally ended]
A command prompt (or just prompt) is a sequence of (one or more) characters used in a command-line interface to indicate readiness to accept commands.	prompt A symbol on a display screen indicating that the computer is waiting for input. Once the computer has displayed a prompt, it waits for you to enter some information. Generally, it will wait forever, but some programs have built-in time-outs that cause the program to continue execution after it has waited a specified amount of time. prompt
a ten-minute slot on the breakfast show	slot a short period of time allowed for one particular event on a programme or TIMETABLE: (meghatározott) idő landing slots at Heathrow Airport A new comedy is scheduled for the 9 pm time slot. The doctor has an open slot at 2 p.m.
He has a conflict and can't attend tomorrow's meeting.	conflict chiefly US : a situation in which you are unable to do something because there is something else you have already agreed to do at that same time konfliktus a scheduling conflict
They have lived in that house from 1983 onward.	onward (AmE) = onwards (BrE) moving forward or continuing: előre, folytatódóan The company offers flights to Amsterdam with onward travel to The Hague. the onward march of science The troops kept moving onward. [=forward]
The journey normally takes about two hours.	normally usually általában Normally, I park behind the theatre. The museum isn’t normally as crowded as this. His normally cheerful face looked sad for a moment.
I thought a holiday in Greece would be cheap, but I was wrong.	to be wrong if you are wrong, you think or say something that is not correct: téved Maybe I’m wrong, but I could have sworn the class was at 9.30 a.m. Why won’t he admit he was wrong?
You were wrong about that train - it left at 10.30.	to be wrong about sg if you are wrong, you think or say something that is not correct: téved vmivel kapcsolatban You were wrong about Tom; he's not married after all.
He is now poised to become the next big star in country music.	to be poised to do sg not used before a noun : ready or prepared for something készen áll vmire The company is poised for success. She seemed poised to take on the leadership of the country.
It's hard to take all this information in at once.	to take in to learn about and try to understand (something) megért, felfog We paused to take in the situation. We need to take in all the options before making a decision.
He's one of the more plugged-in advisers at State House.	plugged-in informal - closely connected; in touch with what is going on; informed; involved, up-to-date; jól informált stay plugged in
The program showcases up-and-coming musicians.	to showcase to show (something or someone) in an attractive or favorable way bemutat, megmutat She wants to showcase African–American literature.
Would you like to go first?	to go first (a person or thing) coming before all others in order, time, amount, quality, or importance: elsőnek megy You go first.
Who wants to go next?	to go next Next means the first thing or person immediately after the present thing or person következőnek megy
Most students choose one particular area for research.	particular used to indicate that one specific person or thing is being referred to and no others - certain, specific: adott, bizonyos In this particular case, no one else was involved. a particular type of food He quit his job for no particular reason. I have nothing/something particular planned for this evening
Who would like to go on vacation? Who made these awesome quesadillas?	who vs whom Who should be used to refer to the subject of a sentence. Whom should be used to refer to the object of a verb or preposition. ki vs kit To whom was the letter addressed? Whom do you believe? I do not know with whom I will go to the prom.
After the interruption, she proceeded with her presentation.	to proceed 1 [no object] a : to continue to do something folytat “Before we proceed further, does anyone have any questions?” We will proceed according to plan. We may not be able to proceed as planned. After inspecting the house, the couple decided to proceed [=go ahead] with the sale.
The problems have been fixed and the work can now proceed.	to proceed 1 [no object] b : to continue being done folytatódik The work is proceeding [=going] well.
The amount each person contributes will be left to the discretion of the individual. [=each person will decide how much he or she will contribute]	to leave sg to sy's discretion the right to choose what should be done in a particular situation vmit vki belátására bíz
more clear vs clearer	"more clear vs clearer Both ""more clear"" and ""clearer"" are acceptable: tisztább Your answer is more clear than mine. Your answer is clearer than mine."
Non-commercial whitelists are operated by various non-profit organisations, ISPs and others interested in blocking spam.	to whitelist a list of people or things that are considered by a particular authority or group to be acceptable and that should be trusted whitelist
"The software can be used to handle the ""allow"" and ""block"" lists in order to whitelist and blacklist particular email users and domains."	to whitelist to put the name of someone or something on a whitelist: whitelist-re teszi
They arrived around midday.	midday the middle of the day, at or around 12 o'clock dél, déli I’m meeting him at midday. I got there around midday. By midday it had begun to warm up. We stopped off in Colchester for our midday meal.
The term artifact in connection with software development is largely associated with specific development methods or processes e.g., Unified Process.	artifact (AmE) = artefact (BrE) An artifact is one of many kinds of tangible by-products produced during the development of software. Some artifacts (e.g., use cases, class diagrams, and other Unified Modeling Language (UML) models, requirements and design documents) help describe the function, architecture, and design of software. Other artifacts are concerned with the process of development itself—such as project plans, business cases, and risk assessments. artifact Build tools often refer to source code compiled for testing as an artifact, because the executable is necessary to carrying out the testing plan. Much of what are considered artifacts is software documentation. In end-user development an artifact is either an application or a complex data object that is created by an end-user without the need to know a general programming language.
What is the neutral way of telling someone to “do whatever you want”?	"What is the neutral way of telling someone to “do whatever you want”? Hogy mondjuk azt szépen, hogy ""csinálj amit akarsz""? It's up to you. OR I'll leave it up to you. It's your call. I'll let you decide. Let me know what you prefer. It's up to your discretion. You're free to choose. Feel free to do whatever you would like. As you wish. Please act accordingly. Act accordingly."
back end = back-end = backend	back end = back-end = backend (computing) (of a device or program) not used directly by a user, but used by a program or computer backend
The bottles are designed to be reused up to 20 times.	to reuse to use something again újrahasznál, újra felhasznál I can reuse that container.
“What if we miss the bus?” “No worries [=no problem], there's another one in seven minutes.”	no worries chiefly Australia + British, informal— used to say that there is no reason to worry semmi gond ‘Can you deliver on Thursday?’ ‘Yeah, no worries, mate.’
Where does this leave us?	Where does this/that leave us? what kind of situation are we in now, what are we supposed to do now, where are we, what should we do Mit jelent ez számunkra? Mit csináljunk most?
Your idea sounds reasonable.	reasonable fair and sensible ésszerű, elfogadható, megfelelő We have reasonable cause not to believe him. She offered a reasonable compromise. It's not reasonable to expect perfect weather.
Several important issues are only briefly mentioned.	briefly in only a few words : in a brief way röviden Please briefly describe/summarize your experience. The party, to put it briefly, was a disaster. = Briefly, the party was a disaster.
Coffee shops seem to be popping up everywhere.	to pop up to appear in usually a sudden or unexpected way felbukkan New evidence has been popping up every day in the trial. Problems kept popping up.
for those of you who don’t know me (already)	for those of you who don’t know me (already) to be familiar with a person, place etc: azoknak, akik még nem ismernek
Some departments have become silos and no longer communicate regularly with one another.	silo a system, process, department, etc. that operates separately or is thought of as separate from others silo In some countries, the economy and foreign policy are considered in separate silos.
More to come on that.	More to come on that. Da kommt noch mehr. [als Versprechen, Drohung] még több jön erről
The president requested other countries to get on board with him on reducing poverty.	to get on board with sy on sg to agree on something or to support an idea egyetért vagy támogat vkivel vmit
They needed to get more senators on board for the bill to pass.	to get sy on board to make someone become involved in an activity or support an idea rávesz vkit, hogy egyetértsen vagy támogasson vmit We must get more sponsors on board.
A consultancy firm was brought on board to ensure consistency and compatibility.	to bring sy on board to make someone become involved in an activity or support an idea rávesz vkit, hogy egyetértsen vagy támogasson vmit You need to bring the whole staff on board.
Make sure all senior managers are on board and involved in the internet strategy.	to be on board to agree on something or to support an idea egyetért vagy támogat vmit
It’s good to have you on board (= working with us) for this project.	to have sy on board working with us, to agree on something or to support an idea velünk dolgozol, egyetért vagy támogat vmit
Let's now look under the hood to see how the software goes about transmitting data so quickly.	"under the hood a metaphorical area that contains the underlying implementation of something - e.g. a piece of hardware, a piece of software, an idea, etc. ""a motorháztető alatt/alá"", ""a háttérben"", ahol implementálva van vmi To understand how it really works we need to look under the hood."
Wooster: Just one thing. Where do I sleep? Jeeves: In here, sir.	"here vs in here If the place being referenced by ""here"" is a space which can be entered, it is correct to use the word ""in"". Excluding ""in"" is also acceptable, but removes the suggestion that ""here"" is enterable. ""In here"" is really only used for locations that are physically inside an enclosed space such as a building, a room, a vehicle, a sauna, or a swimming pool. itt vs itt (bent)"
He lived at the time of the Napoleonic wars.	at the time of sg a period of history connected with particular events or experiences in people’s lives vminek az idején, vminek az idejében She was three months pregnant at the time of Stephen’s death.
She was driving, eating, and talking on the phone all at the same time.	at the same time 1 during the same moment egyidőben, egyszerre She tries to appear to be both glamorous and modest at the same time. As a parent, he is at one and the same time strict and loving. [=he is both strict and loving]
She wants more respect, but at the same time she does nothing to earn it. = She wants more respect, while at the same time doing nothing to earn it.	at the same time 2 used to introduce a statement that adds to and differs from a preceding statement ugyanakkor, azonban The new regulations will help the environment. At the same time [=on the other hand], they may be a burden to businesses.
Either (of the two answers) is correct. [=both answers are correct]	either the one or the other bármelyik (=mindkettő) I don't think that either of the two answers is correct. = Of the two answers, I don't think that either is correct. I don't like either of the answers. [=I like neither of the answers]
“Are you coming with us?” “Yeah, I'm coming.”	yeah informal - 1: yes igen Yeah, I agree with you. “That looks good.” “Yeah, I think so too.”
The house comprises two bedrooms, a kitchen, and a living room.	to comprise to consist of particular parts, groups etc: tartalmaz, magában foglal, vmiből áll The committee is comprised of well-known mountaineers. Each army division comprised 4,500 troops. The play comprises three acts.
Are questions not directly related to programming (but might concern programmers) on-topic?	question not directly related to sg to be connected with (someone or something) : to be about (someone or something) kérdés nem konkrétan kapcsolódik vmihez I have a question not directly related to the game.
“I will review your resume and we will go from there”.	to go from there The phrase to go from there means to proceed or continue after a result, certain amount of time, after an event or situation. onnan folytatja “Once we get the blood results back from the lab, we will go from there” the doctor told his patient. The teacher had noticed a change in one of the student’s behaviour but couldn’t understand what the issue was. The worried teacher decided she would talk to the student’s parents and go from there.
I don’t think I’ll ever get married, but you never know.	you never know used to say that it is impossible to be sure about what will happen sosem tudhatod You never know—you might win the lottery. You never know who will show up. Why don’t you ask for a raise? You never know, they could say yes.
Who knows what will happen to Peter and me in the future - you can never tell.	you can never tell = you never can tell said to mean that you can never know or be certain: sosem tudhatod The boy might turn out to be a genius. You never can tell.
These terms are used interchangeably.	interchangeably ​in a way that can be exchanged, especially without affecting the way in which something works felcserélhetően
These words have similar meanings but they're not (freely) interchangeable (with each other).	interchangeable capable of being used in place of each other felcserélhető These two words are almost interchangeable. a camera with interchangeable lenses
cheers	cheers British English, informal - thank you köszönöm
cheers	cheers British English, informal - goodbye szia
Drink up, everybody. Cheers!	cheers used as a toast to wish everyone happiness Egészségedre! Cheers! Your good health.
It's too expensive, and anyway [=and besides], we don't have enough time to do it.	anyway 3 — used to add something to a previous statement különben is, amúgy is
There seems to have been a technical problem – anyway, that’s what they told me.	anyway 4 — used to correct or slightly change a previous statement mindenesetre, legalábbis The movie wasn't that bad. I liked it, anyway, even if no one else did. For a brief time, anyway, they seemed to be happy. The weather is expected to improve next week. Anyway, that's what I've heard. Let’s think about it for a while, for a few days anyway.
I didn't like the ending, but otherwise it was a very good book.	otherwise 3: in all ways except the one mentioned különben, amúgy One of the boys has a freckle on his cheek. Otherwise, the twins are nearly identical. It rained in the morning; otherwise, it was a beautiful day. = It rained in the morning, but it was a beautiful day otherwise.
Finish your dinner. Otherwise [=if you don't finish your dinner], you won't get any dessert.	otherwise 4: if not : or else különben, ellenkező esetben I hope we haven't missed the last train; otherwise [=if we have missed the train], we'll have to get a taxi.
What you said was true. It was, nevertheless, a little unkind.	nevertheless in spite of a fact that you have just mentioned ennek ellenére I had lost a lot of money in the poker game; nevertheless [=however], I decided to continue playing. It was a predictable, but nevertheless funny, story.
I deactivated my profile on the dating website, just so you know.	just so you know I provide this information (without being asked) in order that you may be aware of it and thus be spared embarrassment or inadvertent error. csak hogy tudd What Danielle says to guy she's been seeing: Oh, hey I decativated my profile on the dating website, just so you know. What Danielle REALLY means: You better take your dang profile off the dating website too....NOW!!!! Just so you know, I am not seeing her from the last month.
We need to assess what happened and what, if anything, we could have done to prevent it.	if anything used when saying that there may be nothing: ha egyáltalán bármi / bármit is The survey aims to find out what (if anything) religion means to people. Fidelity in translation has little, if anything, to do with literal meaning.
Refactoring may also be necessary when performance fails to meet expectations after a lift and shift, especially when tuning doesn't solve the problem.	lift and shift Lift and shift is a strategy for moving an application or operation from one environment to another without stopping to redesign the app or operations workflow. lift and shift disadvantages of a lift and shift approach
cookie-cutter shopping malls	cookie-cutter (adjective) US, disapproving - very similar to other things of the same kind : not original or different hasonló, ugyanolyan a neighborhood of cookie-cutter houses Opponents accused the candidate of taking a cookie-cutter approach to the problem. [=of not coming up with new ideas to deal with the problem]
easy-peasy	easy-peasy (British English, informal) - (used especially by children) very easy nagyon könnyű
The new trade agreement should facilitate more rapid economic growth.	to facilitate formal - to make it possible or easier for something to happen elősegít, előmozdít, megkönnyít Structured teaching facilitates learning. The current structure does not facilitate efficient work flow.
He spot-checked the data for errors.	to spot-check an examination of a few things or people from a group, to check whether everything is correct or satisfactory szúrópróbaszerűen ellenőriz Police spot-checked cars at the border. At park exits vehicles are spot-checked by a armed ranger.
This movie was based on a true story.	to be based on sg = to be based off sg = to be based off of sg (AmE, informal, nonstandard, not quite uneducated or illiterate, but a step toward that direction) if a film, story, idea, plan etc is based on something else, that is where its basic ideas or facts come from: valamin alapul This movie was based upon a true story. This movie was based off of a true story.
The figures for 2014 were used as a baseline for the study.	baseline technical: information that is used as a starting point by which to compare other information kiindulópont, bázis The company’s waste emissions were 14% lower than in 1998, the baseline year.
The election campaign had to be constantly fine-tuned so that the right message got across.	to fine-tune to make small changes to a plan or system that is already good, so that it works as well as possible: finomhangol You’ve established the general direction you want to go in, now you need to fine-tune your plans.
If you don't finish school, you'll regret it down the line.	down the line informal: in the future a jövőben We'll have to correct these problems further down the line.
You can always upgrade a bit further down the road if you want.	down the road in or into the future a jövőben They hope to expand the business somewhere down the road. [=at some time in the future] We don't know what the situation will be like a month down the road.
The tools that the ancient Egyptians used to build their temples were extremely rudimentary.	rudimentary basic or simple kezdetleges This class requires a rudimentary knowledge of human anatomy. He speaks rudimentary English.
I’ll get around to finishing that book sometime . Albert, a sometime cab driver, now flies airplanes for a living. It will take some time to finish the project today.	sometime vs some time Sometime means “at some point.” As an adjective, sometime also means “former.” Some time means “a period of time”—usually a long period of time. Sometime = valamikor sometime (melléknév) = valamikori, korábbi some time = egy (hosszabb) időperiódus
You probably won't need to call—but take my number, just in case.	just in case because of the possibility of something happening a biztonság kedvéért We brought extra money just in case. I’ll take my umbrella too, just in case.
It’ll take us about half an hour to get to the airport.	to get to somewhere informal - to arrive at a place eljut, megérkezik vhová Turn left, and walk down the street until you get to some traffic lights.
It's time to get back to work. [=to start working again]	to get back to sg to return to an activity, condition, etc. — usually + to visszatér vmihez Things are finally getting back to normal. Let's get back to the topic we were discussing yesterday.
What time do you usually get home in the evening?	to get home/here/there to arrive at a place valahova megérkezik, vhova ér When did you get here/there? He got home last night. I want to get there before the store closes.
Gasoline prices have been decoupled from crude oil prices.	to decouple sg from sg (formal) to end the connection or relationship between two things elválik vmi vmitől, megszakad a kapcsolat 2 dolog között The optimists thought the rest of the world would be able to decouple from the problems of the American housing market.
It was a fruitful discussion which encompassed several different viewpoints.	to encompass formal - to include or deal with a very wide range of ideas, subjects etc: felölel, tartalmaz The Hindu religion encompasses many widely differing forms of worship. The study encompasses the social, political, and economic aspects of the situation.
a breakout session	breakout one of several groups that a larger group of people has divided into to discuss something, especially at a conference, In the breakout, teams estimate their capacity (velocity) for each Iteration and identify the backlog items they will likely need to realize the features. breakout He attended several breakout sessions at the conference.
They are horribly expensive but to my mind they are the best.	in my mind = to my mind in my opinion véleményem szerint But in my mind I suffered. But not quickly enough to my mind. With Amantani fresh in my mind it seemed to me that more than the cattle were tethered here.
We need to revisit this proposal as soon as the budget is clearer.	to revisit formal - to consider or discuss something again újra meggondol vagy megbeszél The police revisited the case of the unsolved murder. The book/idea is worth revisiting.
I wrote down the name of the hotel for future reference (= because it might be useful in the future).	for future reference because it might be useful in the future mert később hasznos lehet, későbbi használatra, későbbi utánanézésre The report was filed for future reference. [=so that people could look at it later]
The game has been postponed until next week, time TBD.	TBD to be determined — used to indicate that the time or place of something has not yet been decided and will be announced at a later time TBD
The rule is not applicable [=relevant] to this case.	applicable able to be applied or used in a particular situation alkalmazható, ide vonatkozó, megfelelő Businesses must comply with all applicable laws. This method is applicable to a variety of problems.
Give details of children where applicable (= if you have any).	where applicable = if applicable = as applicable if something is applicable to a particular person, group, or situation, it affects them or is related to them megfelelően The company will help with moving expenses where applicable.
So perhaps send an email to Fabio and CC Viktor. In your email, state that you are on the FSRA team and need similar access to me, erichas.	to state to formally say or write a piece of information or your opinion: állít, ír, mond Please state your name and address. Rembert again stated his intention to resign from Parliament. The government needs to clearly state its policy on UN intervention.
Off the top of my head, I can think of three people who might be interested.	off the top of one's head informal: immediately by thinking quickly about something kapásból I can't remember her name off the top of my head.
The cut-off date for registration is July 2.	cut off date = cut-off date a point or limit when you stop something határidő Set a cut-off date for work to be finished. 31 March is the cutoff date for applications to be accepted.
A lot of people think soufflés are hard to make. Nothing could be further from the truth.	Nothing could be further from the truth. used when you want to say that something is completely untrue semmi sem lehetne távolabb a valóságtól They say he is a spy, but nothing could be further from the truth. People often described him as a bitter academic, but nothing could be further from the truth.
As she put it, “You can't please everyone.”	to put sg to say or express (something) mond vagy kifejez vmit Well put! Let me put it another way. I think you're incompetent, to put it bluntly.
Money makes money. To put it another way, the more you invest, the greater your potential profit will be.	to put it another way used when you have explained something in one way and you are going to try to make it clearer by explaining it in a different way: másképp mondva The problem demands a global solution. To put it another way, local regulations will have very little effect.
Let me put it this way, he’s rich, but he’s certainly not attractive.	Let me put it this way used when you are going to say something that is honest but may sound rude hogy úgy mondjam
They have made an urgent request for international aid.	request for sg a polite or formal demand for something kérése vminek requests from customers for more information Anderson repeated his request that we postpone the meeting.
The request was first submitted a number of months ago.	to submit a request make a formal request benyújt egy (hivatalos) kérést He has put in a request for two weeks' holiday.
You have to request permission if you want to take any photographs.	to request sg formal - to ask for something in a polite or formal way: kér vmit To request more information, please call our toll free number. He requested a table near the window. [=he asked to be seated at a table near the window]
The prosecution has requested that all charges against Hodgkins are dropped.	to request that formal - to ask for something in a polite or formal way: kéri, hogy The governor will request that the legislature raise taxes. She requested that no one be told of her decision until the next meeting.
All club members are requested to attend the annual meeting.	to request sy to do sg formal - to ask for something in a polite or formal way: megkér vkit, hogy csináljon vmit You are requested not to smoke in the restaurant. We were requested to assemble in the lobby.
The Police Committee requested a grant from the Government to cover the extra expense.	to request something from somebody formal - to ask for something in a polite or formal way: kér vkitől vmit She requested permission to film at the White House.
Don't worry about being late. It doesn't matter anyway.	anyway 5 — used to indicate that something stated before is not important amúgy sem
I must have fallen asleep at that point. Anyway, the next thing I knew, the phone was ringing.	anyway 6 — used to introduce a statement that begins a new subject or that goes on to the next important part of a story mindegy, egyébként, amúgy So, anyway, what do you want to do next? Anyway, I have to go now. I'm already late.
While some people think it is true, our research proves otherwise. [=our research proves it is false]	otherwise 5 — used to indicate that something different from the thing mentioned is suggested, shown, done, etc. ellenkezőleg, ellenkezőképpen, másképpen He claims to be innocent, but the evidence suggests otherwise. [=the evidence suggests that he is not innocent] You know what happened, so don't try to pretend otherwise. [=that you don't know what happened]
The teacher asked him to rewrite the essay.	to rewrite to write (something) again especially in a different way in order to improve it or to include new information újraír I had to rewrite the computer program/code.
The new system makes it easier to access the money in your bank account.	to access sg a : to be able to use, enter, or get near (something) hozzáfér vmihez Your favorite radio stations can be accessed at the touch of a button.
The town wants to increase public access to beaches.	access to sg a way of getting near, at, or to something or someone hozzáférés vmihez A dirt road provides access to the home.
I was thinking we could go out for dinner and then go out to this bar on Fifth Street. How does that sound?	How does that sound? Ask someone whether they like a suggestion or plan Ez hogy hangzik? OK, I'd like you to come in for another interview next week. How does that sound?
How does 1:30 sound? How does 1:30 work? Does 1:30 sound good? How does 1:30 sound to you? Does 1:30 sound good for you? Is 1:30 good for you?	How does that sound? preferred way to phrase this question (i.e., when scheduling a meeting) kérdez vmit
The knife has become dull from constant use. [=from being used very often over a period of time]	use the act of using something használat Two players were suspended for illegal drug use.
The law requires the use of seat belts. [=the law requires people to wear seat belts]	use of sg the act of using something használata vminek We talked about the author's use of irony in the novel.
‘How about dinner and a film tonight?’ ‘Sounds great.’	sounds good/great etc used for telling someone that their idea or suggestion seems like a good one jól hangzik
My first thought was that something must have changed.	thought [count] : an idea, plan, opinion, picture, etc., that is formed in your mind : something that you think of gondolat She had a sudden thought. = A sudden thought occurred to her. The thought of leaving never crossed my mind.
as of today	as of today so far eddig, a mai állapot szerint
We decided to leave since our only other alternative was to wait in the rain.	alternative (pl. alternatives) to sg something that can be chosen instead of something else : a choice or option alternatíva vmihez képest They left me no alternative but to call the police. [=I had to call the police] I was offered no alternative. We've been looking for alternatives to the usual treatment, but it seems there are few options.
No decision will be made until next year, so you’ll just have to wait and see.	to wait and see to be patient until you see what happens: (nyugodtan) vár, kivár ‘So what’s this surprise you’ve got for me then?’ ‘Wait and see.’ I’m not going to tell you who else I’ve invited - you’ll just have to wait and see.
criteria (plural)	criterion (singular), criteria (plural) The word criteria is often treated as singular or even uncountable, but these uses are usually still considered incorrect, because the standard singular form is criterion. The standard and most common plural form is criteria; less common is criterions.[1][2] kritériumok
Now, where were we? Oh yes, we were talking about John.	Where were we? used to talk about a particular stage in a process, conversation, story etc: Hol tartottunk?
Keep in mind that the teacher’s previous experience in preparing students for the Cambridge exam can influence the results.	to keep in mind to remember a fact or some information because it will be useful to you in the future: emlékezik, ne feledd
Canada has much to offer in terms of location and climate.	to have sg to offer sy to have qualities, opportunities etc that people are likely to want or enjoy: vmit nyújt He felt he had nothing to offer her that she wanted.
They have had five back-to-back wins.	back-to-back happening one after another egymás után következő back-to-back victories back-to-back appointments
What are you getting at, Helen?	to be getting at something to be trying to say something in a way that is difficult for other people to understand: próbál valamire kilyukadni Do you see the point I’m getting at?
in a call vs on a call	"in a call vs on a call The two are used interchangeably as to be in or on a call is a fairly new expression, with some very slight contextual differences. ""In"" is more often used to describe whether someone has successfully connected (especially in conference calling): ""Are you in yet?"". However, it is sometimes used more generally ""I'm sorry, he is in a call"" because it sounds similar to ""in a meeting"". You wouldn't ask someone having technical problems ""are you on yet?"" though. (This is a bit confusing, because we talk about logging on, but once someone has logged on, they are usually described as ""in"".) ""On"" is more often used to describe someone who is in the process of taking part in a call more generally. ""Will you be on that call this afternoon?"". But you could equally say ""in"" here. callban van"
rigorous training	rigorous 1 very strict and demanding szigorú, kemény rigorous enforcement of the rules a rigorous course of study
Every new drug has to pass a series of rigorous safety checks before it is put on sale.	rigorous 2 done carefully and with a lot of attention to detail szigorú The entrance tests for people wishing to enter the diplomatic service are particularly rigorous.
Try to get employees and clients on the same page.	to get sy on the same page chiefly US, informal - agreeing about something (such as how things should be done) vkit rávesz, hogy egyetértsen vmivel It was an effort to get us all on the same page.
Make sure everyone is on the same page before you give your final answer.	to be on the same page chiefly US, informal - agreeing about something (such as how things should be done) vkivel egyetért vmiben Are employers and employees on the same page when it comes to retirement benefits?
Ideally, each student should be taught individually.	ideally used to say what should happen or be done to produce the best results ideális esetben Ideally, you should do these exercises daily.
I get it now (that you have explained it more clearly) I've got it the first time(, there was no need to repeat yourself).	"I get it vs I've got it Most people aren't as particular, and will use the two interchangeably. Native English speakers usually use either interchangeably to mean the same thing, that is, they understand now. There doesn't seem to be a difference in meaning or usage due to the different verb tense. They also sometimes add ""now"": ""I've got it now"" or ""I get it now"". értem"
When it comes to politics, their opinions/views diverge. [=they have different opinions/views]	to diverge to be or become different szétválnak, különböző vagy különbözővé válik They were close friends in college, but after graduation, their lives diverged.
I wonder if you could tell me where the post office is?	to wonder [+ object] — used to ask a question or make a polite request Here is the phrase that you should avoid using: “I wonder if you could tell the correct word” or “I wonder if you could get me a drink.” This phrase sound old fashioned and indirect. It does not sound strong enough. Actually the phrase “I wonder if…” is used to contemplate or ponder something. It’s not used to make a request in modern American English. udvariasan megkérdez vmit We were wondering if you'd like to join us for dinner.
Would you mind doing me a small favor?	Do you mind / Would you mind doing sg used to make a polite request udvariasan megkér vmit Do you mind me/my sitting here? [=would you be bothered if I sat here?]
Do you mind if I smoke? = Would you mind if I smoked?	Do you mind / Would you mind if used to make a polite request, in formal contexts such as essays or business letters, people usually avoid using the abbreviation e.g., and write for example in full: udvariasan megkérdez vmit I'm tired. Would you mind leaving a little early? = Would you mind it if we left a little early?
citrus fruits, e.g. oranges and grapefruit	e.g. the abbreviation of for example: például
The film is only open to adults, i.e. people over 18.	i.e. that is, in other words azaz
‘Don't let go.’ ‘Yeah, gotcha.’ (= Yes, I understand.)	"gotcha = I have got you Gotcha also means I understand what you are trying to say: értelek ""So be sure you get here by three."" ""Gotcha."""
Teachers often play devil's advocate to provoke discussion in the classroom.	to play devil's advocate a person who expresses an opinion that disagrees with others so that there will be an interesting discussion about some issue direkt nem ért egyet, hogy legyen egy érdekes beszélgetés He would play devil’s advocate with anyone.
A lot of people have had trouble working with him, and that was certainly the case with me. [=I also had trouble working with him]	the case what actually exists or happens ami igazából van vagy történik
Is it not the case [=isn't it true] that she took the car without permission?	it is not the case it isn't true nem igaz
A law against dumping waste is the way to go.	the way to go the best method for doing a particular thing a legjobb módszer egy adott dolog megcsinálására They are about the same quality, so if you can get a discount on the color you like, that would be the way to go. If you're addressing a group of people, this is the way to go.
Before moving on to the more advanced aspects of wave riding let us consider what should happen in the first attempts.	to move on to sg to leave your present job, class, or activity and start doing another one továbbmegy, továbblép vmire Jeremy’s leaving the company to move on to higher things. When you finish, move on to the next exercise.
It took all morning to put the proposal together.	to put together sg = to put sg together 1 to prepare or produce something by collecting pieces of information, ideas etc: összerak vmit Help me put together a list of what we need at the store. She put a proposal together to give to the committee for consideration.
You must be feeling awful. I went through something similar myself last year, so I can relate.	to relate [no object] : to understand and like or have sympathy for someone or something azonosul, átérez The audience needs to be able to relate to the characters in the story. He writes songs that people can really relate to.
For what it's worth, I don't think your dad meant to insult you.	for what it’s worth spoken - used when you are giving someone information, to say that you are not sure how useful it is: ha engem kérdezel I prefer this colour, for what it's worth. They are, for what it's worth, the single most successful playhouse in the West. For what it’s worth, I don’t think we can do anymore until we get more training.
He doesn't particularly like the work but he sees it as a means to an end.	a means to an end something that you do only to achieve a result, not because you want to do it or because it is important: egy eszköz a célhoz For Geoff, the job was simply a means to an end.
Next, put it in the oven for 20 minutes.	next (adverb) 1: in the time or place that follows or comes directly after someone or something : after this ezután Open this present next. There's a small grocery store in town. The next closest store is 20 miles away. [=not including the store in town, the closest store is 20 miles away]
When I next saw her she completely ignored me.	next (adverb) 2: at the first time after this legközelebb when we next see each other = when we see each other next = (formal) when next we see each other when next we meet.
She’s been working here long enough to know what’s what.	what’s what the real facts about a situation that are important to know: mi micsoda Gloria will know what's what.
We have Japanese parts available.	to have sg available = to have available sg zur Verfügung haben rendelkezésére áll, van valamije I have very few days available at the moment
The car is great in terms of gas mileage [=the car's gas mileage is great], but it's not very comfortable.	in terms of sg used to indicate the specific thing that is being described, thought of, etc. vmit illetően, vmit tekintve He thinks of everything in terms of money. [=his judgments/opinions about everything are based on thoughts about money]
All invoices are issued with the usual 10-day grace period.	grace period an amount of extra time that someone is given to pay a bill, finish a project, etc. türelmi idő, fizetési haladék The terms of the loan allow for a ten-day grace period.
‘Can we go to the park this afternoon, Mum?’ ‘We’ll see.’	We'll see. used for saying that you will decide later meglátjuk ‘Can we go to the zoo, Dad?’ ‘We’ll see.’ (=used when you do not want to make a decision immediately)
My dad's always talking about how great everything was back in the day.	back in the day used for talking about a time in the past, usually when you are remembering nice things about that time: régen Back in the day, we had an apartment with a swimming pool.
Cutover will be executed as per the ‘Cutover Plan’ - a set of detailed, sequenced tasks to build the new Production system, convert and migrate data, configure the new system and decommission legacy systems.	cutover Cutover is the execution of activities required to successfully migrate the business operations from Legacy Systems to the new Production system. átállás Mock Cutovers are utilized to practice and validate the Cutover Plan prior to Go-Live and make revisions prior to the actual. It is a way of fine-tuning the process and minimize risks prior to full production cutover.
‘Some people find it very difficult to work quickly.’ ‘That’s right, and they often find exams very stressful.’	that’s right used to agree with what someone says or to answer ‘yes’ to a question: igen ‘I gather you work in the sales department?’ ‘That’s right.’
We were positive that we would win the game.	to be positive that not used before a noun : completely certain or sure that something is correct or true biztos I'm not (absolutely) positive, but I think they won the World Series in 1954.
Put this package in the mail for me and then let's call it a day.	"Let's call it a day. Let's finish working for the day. Fejezzük be a munkát mára. A: ""We've been staring at these spreadsheets for hours now, and we still haven't found the source of the discrepancy."" B: ""Let's just call it a day and come at it with fresh eyes tomorrow."""
I'm getting a bit tired now - let's call it a day.	Let's call it a day. to stop what you are doing because you do not want to do any more or think you have done enough: befejezi, amit csinál After 14 years living and working in this country, she thinks it's time to call it a day.
It would be nice to have a break.	it is nice to do something SOMETHING YOU WANT - used to say what you like or what you think would be good or useful: jó vmit csinálni It’s quite nice to live so close to work.
‘I’ve been so tired lately.’ ‘Yeah, tell me about it!’	Tell me about it. used to say that you already know how bad something is, especially because you have experienced it yourself: nekem mondod, mintha nem tudnám “Something is wrong with that computer.” “Yeah, tell me about it. I can never get it to work properly.”
Over half the population suffers from back pain at some point in their lives.	at some point at some moment in time that is not made specific valamikor You will probably sell the car at some point in the future.
Beware of the dog!	to beware of sg used to warn someone to be careful because something is dangerous vigyáz, óvakodik vmitől Police warned drivers to beware.
Are you aware how important you are to me?	to be aware of sg knowing that something (such as a situation, condition, or problem) exists tud vmiről He was made aware of the situation. You should be aware that the possibility/problem exists.
I look forward to meeting you vs I'm looking forward to meeting you	I look forward to meeting you vs I'm looking forward to meeting you These are both correct. I would add, though, that I'm looking forward to our meeting sounds (to me, at least) more conversational (and a bit more genuine), whereas I look forward to our meeting is a bit more formal/polite. I would expect to find the I'm looking form in spoken language, and the I look form in writing (likely at the end of an email confirming a meeting). alig várom, hogy lássalak
This ramp-up period is the new hire onboarding process.	ramp-up period This ramp-up period is the new hire onboarding process. betanulási idő
You want to ramp up the new hire as quickly as possible, but you also need to avoid overwhelming them with too much too fast	to ramp up - betanít Therefore, onboarding should be a combination of education, relationship building, and networking to ramp up a new employee as quickly as possible without cutting any corners.
Everyone was new at a company at some point, and everyone needs time to ramp up.	to ramp up - betanul To help you develop a water-tight onboarding plan so your new hire can acclimate to your company and ramp up quickly, we put together a mega list of onboarding tips. Be clear about what is expected from your new hire at each stage of their onboarding, and then as they ramp up and as an ongoing part of their career.
The plot is a little difficult to follow.	to follow = to grasp to understand the sense or logic of (something or someone) megért I didn’t quite follow what he was saying. I'm sorry—I don't follow your argument/reasoning. = I'm sorry—I don't follow you. [=I don't understand you]
It's hard to tell if she's kidding or not.	to tell to see or know (something) with certainty eldönt, megmondani It was easy to tell that the bill was counterfeit.
The jacket is available in various colours.	various 1 if there are various things, there are several different types of that thing különböző, többféle There are various ways to answer your question. He decided to leave school for various reasons.
Last year the company's tax rate was less, thanks to its use of a tax loss carry-forward.	carryforward = carry-forward the practice of treating a company's present profit or loss as if it happened in a later period: átvezetés
Oddly enough, she wasn’t offended by his remarks.	oddly enough used for saying that something is not what you would expect in a particular situation különös módon, különös, hogy Oddly enough, someone asked me the same question only yesterday.
The chart of accounts is a listing of all accounts used in the general ledger of an organization.	chart of accounts The chart of accounts is a listing of all accounts used in the general ledger of an organization. számlatükör
Please advise on the I/O he should charge travel expenses to.	to charge sg to sg to record the cost of something on someone’s account, so that they can pay for it later: ráterhel vmit vmire Wilson charged the drinks to his room. Use a courier and charge it to the department. to charge something to sb’s account/room etc
The accrual of an expense or an expense accrual refers to the reporting of an expense and the related liability in an accounting period that is prior to the period when the amount will be paid or the vendor's invoice will be processed.	accrual expenses that should be reported now, but have not yet been recorded or paid, and revenues that should be reported now, but have not yet been recorded nor has the money been received időbeli elhatárolás The accrual of revenues or a revenue accrual refers to the reporting of revenue and the related asset in the period in which they are earned, and which is prior to processing a sales invoice or receiving the money.
A deferral of an expense or an expense deferral involves a payment that was paid in advance of the accounting period(s) in which it will become an expense.	deferral paid out money that should be reported as an expense in a later accounting period, and/or received money that should be reported as revenue in a later accounting period időbeli elhatárolás A deferral of revenues or a revenue deferral involves money that was received in advance of earning it.
She used to be insecure about her height.	insecure not confident about yourself or your ability to do things well : nervous and uncomfortable nem magabiztos magával vagy a képességével kapcsolatban I feel shy and insecure around strangers. He felt insecure about the idea of becoming a father.
Our team lost. It was a good game though.	though (adverb) spoken - used after adding a fact, opinion, or question which seems surprising after what you have just said, or which makes what you have just said seem less true: azért ‘Have you ever been to Australia?’ ‘No. I'd like to, though.’ Two heart attacks in a year. It hasn’t stopped him smoking, though. It sounds like a lot of fun. Isn’t it rather risky though?
Though she’s almost 40, she still plans to compete.	though (conjunction) = although despite the fact that habár, annak ellenére, hogy His clothes, though old and worn, looked clean and of good quality. Though she gave no sign, I was sure she had seen me.
He'll probably say no, though it's worth asking.	though (conjunction) = although used to add a fact or an opinion that makes the previous statement less strong or less important bár They're very different, though they did seem to get on well when they met. I thought he’d been drinking, though I wasn’t completely sure.
Okay, here's the deal. You give us the money and the keys, and we don't break your fingers or mess with your pretty little girlfriend.	"Here's the deal This is the plan, scheme, or proposition. When I hear the idiom, I think it's rather a forced situation than a genuine agreement. It's perhaps ""we've got a big problem, so here's what we need to do to get out of it"", which doesn't allow much agreement or argument. It can be used in a hostile situation, in a somewhat ironic sense of 'deal' (business agreement) Ez a terv. Okay, here’s the deal. You pass the ball to Bob, and I’ll run in the opposite direction."
‘I passed first time.’ ‘Good for you!’	Good for you! ​(informal) used to praise somebody for doing something well szép munka Sue: I just got a raise. Bill: Good for you! Jane: I really told him what I thought of his rotten behavior. Sue: Good for you! He needs it.
How do you know (=what makes you sure) he won’t do it again?	How do you know... what makes you sure honnan tudod
She was forced to cut short her holiday and return to the UK.	to cut short to stop an activity earlier than was planned, especially because of something unexpected such as illness or bad news: (idő előtt) befejez His education was cut short when his father died of a sudden illness.
It's no big deal vs It's not a big deal	It's no big deal vs It's not a big deal It’s no big deal = It’s no problem, it’s not important It’s not a big deal = It’s not an important transaction mindegy, nem fontos vs. nem annyira fontos dolog
Relax – it’s not that big a deal if we’re five minutes late.	"it’s not that big a deal = it's not that big of a deal I am aware of the weaknesses of Ngram, but it works for rough-and-ready questions like this, and shows that ""big a deal"" is used more than ""big of a deal"", at least in writing. Even though ""big a deal"" is the more used, I am not sure I would say your kids are wrong in any absolute way. The 'of' is pretty much redundant, and on a personal level I see unnecessary words as a barrier to clarity, but it is used widely in some areas. big deal: used to say that you do not think something is as important as someone else thinks it is nem fontos, nem lényeges It's not that big of a deal."
My tennis skills are a little rusty.	rusty not as good as usual or as in the past because you have not done or practiced something for a long time megkopott The singers were a bit rusty after the long break.
His voice gave him away (= showed who he really was).	to give sg/sy away to make known something that somebody wants to keep secret elárul vmit/vkit She gave away state secrets to the enemy. His fellow conspirators gave him away to the police. [=they betrayed him to the police]
The way she looked at him gave away her real feelings for him.	to give away to make known something that somebody wants to keep secret elárul Please don't give away [=reveal] how the trick is done.
His accent gave him away as a northerner. [=his accent showed that he was a northerner]	to give sy away to reveal the truth about (someone) elárul vkit
Oh wow, it's already time for us to head back?	to head back To begin the act of returning to some place or thing. visszamegy We better head back to school before anyone realizes we cut study hall.
We broke up because things didn't work out between us.	to work out 2a : to happen, develop, or end in a desired or successful way (jól) működik Our plan worked out perfectly.
Things don't always work out the way you want them to.	to work out 2b : to happen, develop, or end in a particular way or to have a particular result történik Despite some difficulties, everything worked out well. I'm not sure how the story will work out.
You want to be very careful [=you should be very careful] when you pull out of the parking lot.	to want to do sg 5 not used in progressive tenses, [+ object] informal — used to give advice about what someone should do or be — followed by to + verb tanácsot ad vkinek, hogy mit kellene csinálnia vagy lennie We might want to leave a little early. [=maybe we should leave a little early]
They’re all pretty much the same.	pretty much not completely but mostly, almost; almost completely nagyjából, majdnem, majdnem teljesen He goes out pretty well every night. “Are you finished yet?” “Pretty much.” [=just about]
Her presentation for the CEO went really well. She totally crushed it!	He crushed it. He did incredibly well. To succeed at something in a particularly impressive way. Often used in the past tense. elképesztően jól csinált vmit That band always crushes it, so I'm not surprised their halftime performance was spectacular.
He earned the moniker “Gator” from his days wrestling alligators in Florida.	moniker a name or nickname becenév I think “Happy” is an appropriate moniker for someone who smiles so much.
Archer prided himself on his knowledge of Italian art.	to pride yourself on sg to be especially proud of something that you do well or of a particular quality that you have: büszke vmire The school prides itself on its ethnic diversity, Schaeffer said.
He scoffed when she told him that she planned to become an actress.	to scoff to laugh at and talk about someone or something in a way that shows disapproval and a lack of respect kigúnyol, kicsúfol, kinevet ‘You, a scientist!’ he scoffed. “You! An actress?!” he scoffed. “You have no more talent than I do!”
David scoffed at her fears.	to scoff at sg to laugh at and talk about someone or something in a way that shows disapproval and a lack of respect kigúnyol, kicsúfol, kinevet vkit Officials scoffed at the idea. He scoffed at our amateurish attempts.
The story was given a prominent position on the front page.	prominent easily seen könnyen látható, jól látható The church tower was a prominent feature in the landscape.
You have to go through endless red tape to get a residence permit.	red tape official rules that seem more complicated than necessary and prevent things from being done quickly red tape bureaucratic red tape a procedure surrounded by bureaucracy and red tape
You leave him to me. I’ll work on him.	to work on sy to try to influence or persuade (someone) to do something megpróbált befolyásolni vagy meggyőzni vkit, hogy csináljon vmit She is working on them to change their votes.
He was going to ask her on a date, but he chickened out at the last minute.	to chicken out informal - to decide not to do something because you are afraid meggondolja magát, visszariad You’re not chickening out, are you?
Make no mistake, this is the most serious threat our industry has ever seen.	make no mistake (about it) spoken - used to emphasize that what you are saying is true, especially when you are warning about something serious or dangerous: semmi kétség, tévedés ne essék, nem kétséges Let us make no mistake: the road to Copenhagen will be long and difficult. Make no mistake (about it), if we don't address these problems now, they will only get worse.
Whose side are you on?	Whose side are you on? used in a humorous way for telling someone to support you instead of supporting your opponent Kinel az oldalán állsz?
Which side are you on?	Which side are you on? used in a humorous way for telling someone to support you instead of supporting your opponent Melyik oldalon állsz?
‘I left work early today.’ ‘How's that (= Why)?’	"How's that? used to ask the reason for something Hogyhogy? A: ""I think you may need to plan a different way of getting to the airport tomorrow."" B: ""How's that?"" A: ""The highway is going to be closed for construction all week."""
“This room looks different.” “How so?” [=in what way does it look different?]	"How so? in what way : why do you think that, used to ask someone to explain an opinion they have given Hogyan? A: ""I thought his artwork was just fascinating."" B: ""Really? How so?"""
Mandela played a prominent role in the early years of the ANC.	prominent 1: important and well-known fontos The World Cup will have a prominent place on the agenda.
A: How did it go yesterday? B: My first day of work? It was intense. My new boss shouted at me.	How did it go? How was it? Hogy ment?
"A: ""Did you hear that Sam got promoted to General Manager?"" B: ""You've got to be kidding me! That guy couldn't manage his way out of a paper bag!"""	"you have got to be kidding (me) = you gotta be kidding (me) used to show that you are very surprised by what someone has said and do not accept it: Most viccelsz velem? A: ""Hey Jared. Mom told me to tell you that you shouldn't stay out too late."" B: ""You've got to be kidding me. I'm 30 years old."""
‘Want a ride on the back of my motorcycle?’ ‘You must be joking.’	you must be joking informal - use this when you think that what someone has asked or suggested seems stupid or dangerous and you would definitely not consider doing it: Viccelsz?
‘Are you going out with Jake?’ ‘You must be joking! I wouldn’t go out with him if he was the last person on earth.’	you must be kidding informal - use this when you think that what someone has asked or suggested seems stupid or dangerous and you would definitely not consider doing it: Viccelsz?
Do we have the right to sacrifice people for the greater good?	"for the greater good a general advantage that you can only gain by losing or harming something that is considered less important a nemesebb célért, a magasztosabb célért, ""nagyobb jóért"" Some wars are fought for the greater good."
Only time will tell if the treatment has been successful.	(only) time will tell used to say that at some time in the future it will become clear whether or not something is true, right etc: majd elválik
Let me explain the problem once again.	once again for another time : one more time még egyszer Once again, you've ignored my instructions.
I looked at myself in the mirror once more.	once more for another time : one more time még egyszer Could I hear the question once more?
Nothing he said was even remotely true. [=nothing he said was at all true]	remotely 1 to a very small degree távolról, messze I've never seen anything remotely like it. [=never seen anything that was like it at all] I wasn't even remotely involved in that decision.
Do you know their whereabouts?	whereabouts the place or area where someone or something is: tartózkodási hely, hollét Her present whereabouts are/is unknown.
Sit down and behave yourself! You're making us look bad.	to make sy look bad 1 To do something stupid or embarrassing which makes the people who are associated with you (your boss, your classmates, your family members) ashamed: csinál vmit, ami miatt a másik szégyelli magát
Learning a new skill takes me a lot of time.	to take sy time require a long time to do időre van szüksége vmire
a company that manufactures wool and cotton clothing	to manufacture sg 1: to make (something) usually in large amounts by using machines gyárt vmit
a huge chemical plant	plant a factory or building where an industrial process happens: üzem power plant
The two candidates were equally popular. Needless to say [=of course, obviously], the election was very close.	needless to say used when you are telling someone something that they probably know or expect: mondanom sem kell Helen has pneumonia, so, needless to say, we're postponing our vacation.
She was taken to hospital, suffering from pneumonia.	pneumonia a serious illness that affects your lungs and makes it difficult for you to breathe: tüdőgyulladás
Come on, finish up your drinks!	to finish sg up to eat or drink all the rest of something, so there is none left: megeszik / megiszik (mindent)
Sometimes Tim needs to be alone. That’s the way he is.	that's (just) the way sy is used to say that a particular situation or person cannot be changed: vki ilyen
Don’t try to fight it. That’s just the way it is.	that's (just) the way sg is used to say that a particular situation or person cannot be changed: vmi ilyen
Local people took matters into their own hands and hired their own security guards.	to take matters into your own hands to deal with a problem yourself because other people have failed to deal with it: saját kezébe veszi az ügyet
That's a totally different issue.	totally completely or entirely teljesen I'm totally against it. He was totally naked
You stupid little turd!	turd informal + impolite, taboo - 2: someone who is very unpleasant and not liked szardarab
Very well, then. I'll see you tomorrow.	very well 1 somewhat old-fashioned — used to say that you agree with something rendben ‘Very well,’ he said. ‘I accept.’ Oh, very well. Do as you please.
You could very well be right. [=it is very possible that you are right]	very well 4b : very possibly — usually used with could, may, or might nagyon valószínű, hogy The concert may well be sold-out. [=it is possible/likely that the concert is sold-out] It may well be true.
No one objected when the paintings were removed.	to object 1 [no object] : to disagree with something or oppose something kifogásol, tiltakozik, ellenez (law) “Your honor, I object. That question is misleading.”
A number of people objected to the proposed changes.	to object to sg 1: to disagree with something or oppose something kifogásol, tiltakozik, ellenez vmit Many people object to [=do not like] the amount of violence on television.
to screw	to screw 3a informal + offensive [no object] : to have sex megkúr
They say he's screwing the boss's wife.	to screw sy 3b informal + offensive [+ object] : to have sex with (someone) megkúr vkit I screwed girls in each country.
I'd given them all of my savings before I realized I was being screwed. [=cheated]	to screw 4a : informal - to take something from (someone) by lying or breaking a rule átver It was only after we'd had the car for a few days that we realized we'd been screwed by the dealer.
Our prices are so cheap we're practically giving away everything in our store!	to give away sg = to give sg away to make a present of (something) ajándékba ad For a limited time only our store is giving away [=giving] a free can of soda to each and every one of our customers!
Stephen and Mr Illing exchanged pleasantries.	to exchange pleasantries When two people exchange pleasantries, they talk to each other politely about unimportant things. Something (such as a greeting) that people say in order to be polite — usually plural udvariasságokat cserél After exchanging pleasantries, she brought me into her office to discuss the project.
Children often misbehave in order to get attention.	to get attention to make someone notice you and be interested in what you are doing figyelmet kap
I can’t wait to get the interview over with.	to get sg over = to get sg over with to do and finish something difficult that you have to do: túl van vmin I’ll be in touch once I’ve got my exams over.
She's an idiot. They make money off (of) her and she only gets nothing.	to make money off (of) sg = to make money out of sy In other words, they use her to make money. She is a source of money for them. To make money off of someone else is a form of using them. pénzt csinál vmiből As publishers and advertisers try to reinvent or at least refresh how they make money off of your attention. Dorie Clark, a marketing strategy consultant, answers a burning question: how do people make money off of what they know?
What is the best way to make money out of Libra?	to make money out of sy = to make money off (of) sg In other words, they use her to make money. She is a source of money for them. To make money off of someone else is a form of using them. pénzt csinál vmiből She's an idiot. They make money out of her and she only gets nothing.
I was so caught up in my school work, that I didn't realize what was happening with my sister.	to be caught up in sg 2: excited about something and having trouble thinking about anything else, so involved in an activity that you do not notice other things: lefoglal vmi Wallace is caught up in his work and has little time for his son, Buxton.
Several members of Congress were caught up in the scandal.	to get caught up in sg = to be caught up in sg 1 to become involved in something, often without wanting to: belekerül vmibe They were having an argument and somehow I got caught up in it. How did you get caught up in this mess?
I couldn't fathom why she made such a foolish decision. = I couldn't fathom her reasons for making such a foolish decision.	to fathom sg formal - to understand the reason for (something) megért Mark couldn’t fathom why she resented him so much.
Through resourcefulness and grit, the pioneers survived the winter.	grit informal - determination and courage határozottság, harcosság, keménység It takes true (= real) grit to stand up to a bully.
His boss caused him to resign. [=his boss made him resign]	to cause sg to do sg 2: to make (someone) feel, have, or do something csináltat vkivel vmit His nervous behavior caused me to question his innocence.
She has been living off of her savings since she lost her job in December.	to live off of sg to obtain one's living or means of survival from someone or something vmiből él Many young unemployed people are still living off of their parents. You can't live off your uncle all your life! I manage to live off of my salary.
I'm afraid that I still don't understand the problem.	I am afraid 2 — used in the phrase I'm afraid as a polite way of showing that you are sorry about a disappointing, negative, or critical statement attól fél, hogy I'm sorry, but I'm afraid (that) I won't be able to come to your party. She tries hard, but I'm afraid that her work just isn't very good.
She was not happy, to say the least. [=she was very unhappy]	to say the least used to emphasize a statement enyhén szólva He is, to say the least, hopeful about the future. [=he is very hopeful about the future] To say the least, they were disappointed that their trip was canceled.
You’re just like my teacher.	just like = exactly like if someone or something is just like or exactly like someone or something else, there is very little difference between them: épp olyan mint
There are insects that look exactly like green leaves.	exactly like = just like if someone or something is just like or exactly like someone or something else, there is very little difference between them: épp olyan mint This song sounds exactly like that one by The Beatles.
Hang on! I’ll be back in a minute.	to hang on = to hold on to wait or stop briefly vár “Can we go now?” “Hang on, I'll be ready in just a minute.”
I can't take it anymore.	I can't take it anymore. I can't stand it any longer Nem bírja tovább
By all accounts, the band put on a great show. [=everyone says that the band put on a great show]	by all accounts = from all accounts according to what other people say azt mondják, sokak szerint She was, by all accounts, good at her job. By all accounts, San Francisco is a city that's easy to fall in love with.
They seemed, from all accounts, to have a happy marriage.	from all accounts = by all accounts according to what other people say azt mondják, sokak szerint It has, from all accounts, been a successful marriage.
No one objected when the paintings were removed.	to make money of sg = to make money off of sg to make money from someone or something pénzt csinál vmin We think we can make some money off the sale of the house.
‘Your room looks a real mess, Tracey.’ ‘So what?’	so what? used to say that something said or done is not important és akkor mi van? She has a glass of wine now and then—so what?
Last year's champion went down in the first round of the tournament this year.	to go down to lose or fail bukik, megbukik The regime finally went down [=fell] in a wave of popular protest.
Don’t let them take advantage of you. Stand up for yourself.	to take advantage of sy to use someone for your own advantage, especially someone who is very generous or is easily persuaded or deceived kihasznál vkit Older brothers and sisters often take advantage of the younger children in a family.
an arbitrarily chosen number	arbitrarily arbitrary: decided or arranged without any reason or plan, often unfairly: tetszőlegesen, önkényesen
You shouldn’t make fun of other people’s beliefs.	to make fun of sy to make someone or something seem stupid by making jokes about them kigúnyol vkit, kinevet vkit Stop making fun of me! The other girls used to make fun of the way she spoke.
He tried to kill me for no apparent reason.	for no apparent reason for no obvious reason látszólagos ok nélkül He left suddenly, for no apparent reason.
I don't wanna use Hooli shit any more than you guys, but this will get us to Hawaii.	not any more than Doing A doesn't mean that you're an X. (church) Doing B doesn't mean that you're a Y. (garage) Therefore, A and B are equally ineffective measures of your true nature. OR Therefore, your doing A doesn't tell us more about your true nature than your doing B does. legalább annyira nem..., mint Going to church doesn’t make you a Christian any more than going to a garage makes you an automobile.
A modest money transfer will do. :)	will do to be enough : to be adequate elegendő lesz I don't need any more cake, thank you. One piece will do. [=one piece is enough] I'd prefer to use glue, but tape will/would do.
a run-of-the-mill performance	run-of-the-mill average or ordinary átlagos, középszerű He gave a fairly run-of-the-mill speech.
The company is trying to generate interest in its new offerings.	offering 2: something that is available for sale or use kínálat the café's tasty dessert offerings
I have my sources.	I have my sources. source: a thing, place, activity etc that you get something from: megvannak a forrásaim
I can’t hear you, you’re breaking up.	you are breaking up If you say that someone is breaking up when you are speaking to them on a mobile phone, you mean that you can only hear parts of what they are saying because the signal is interrupted. rossz a kapcsolat, rossz a vonal The line's gone; I think you're breaking up. I’m sorry. You’re breaking up.
Don't Make Things Complicated.	to make things complicated difficult to understand or deal with, because many parts or details are involved ne bonyolítsd el a dolgokat Don't make things more complicated than they need to be.
The class taught him how to touch-type.	to touch-type to type without looking at the keyboard vakon gépel
The other kids ridiculed him for the way he dressed.	to ridicule to laugh at a person, idea etc and say that they are stupid kigúnyol vkit, kinevet vkit At the time, his ideas were ridiculed. They ridiculed all of her suggestions.
Young athletes think of themselves as invincible.	invincible too strong to be destroyed or defeated: legyőzhetetlen The loss proved that the team is not invincible.
We'll have to see how things pan out. [=turn out]	to pan out = to turn out 1 to happen or develop in a particular way: történik
If things don't pan out [=work out] here, I'll move back to the city.	to pan out = to work out 2: to have the end or result that you want : to succeed or turn out well sikeres lesz He applied for a number of jobs and is hoping that one of them will pan out. [=hoping that he will get one of the jobs]
The sign said “No Trespassing.”	to trespass to go on someone's land without permission rámegy vkinek a területére engedély nélkül He told me I was trespassing.
Champagne wines became immensely popular in the 18th century.	immensely = very much very much nagyon We enjoyed the play immensely.
You'll receive no more than 1-2 emails per week, as we hate spam just as much as you do.	just as much as you do as much as: used to say that two things are equal in amount or degree éppen annyira, mint te
If we’re going to undertake such a big project, the voters should have a say.	to have a say the right to give your opinion about a decision, so that you have some power to influence it: van beleszólása Everybody had a say at the meeting.
By giving the workers a greater say in the running of the company, we hope to increase cooperation and job satisfaction.	to have a say in sg the right to give your opinion about a decision, so that you have some power to influence it: van beleszólása vmibe The students want a greater say in decisions that affect their education.
The company is thinking big.	to think big informal - be ambitious., to plan to do things that are difficult, but will be very impressive, make a lot of profit etc: nagyban gondolkodik By investing over $1.2 million, Levin and his partner are thinking big.
Think small.	to think small don't be too ambitious kicsiben gondolkodik
